




Story highlights There are many reasons for people to think this still young presidency is off the rails, writes Julian Zelizer

Zelizer cites: His thin skin. His inability to separate fact from fiction. His continuing focus on his election victory margin

(CNN) "How would you feel if that was your boss?" and "How would you feel if that was someone in your family?" asked CNN's Jake Tapper after Thursday's news conference with President Donald Trump. Although at this point nothing should surprise anyone about how Trump conducts himself, it was still hard not to have your jaw drop as his face-off with reporters played across screens.

He lashed out personally against reporters, he resumed fighting over the outcome of the election and his loss in the popular vote, and continued steadfastly refusing to admit to facts that are beyond dispute. While it is true that many of his supporters still see the person who "tells it like it is" and isn't afraid to punch back against his critics, this is not a way to conduct the presidency.

The style that we saw on display at this news conference highlighted many parts of President Trump that are causing deep concern, certainly among Democrats, but also with some Republicans. When he continues to traffic in false statements about massive voter fraud, he demonstrates his willingness to circulate false information from the highest levels of power.

When he continues to insist he would have won the popular vote, if not for fraud, and that he enjoyed the biggest Electoral College victory since Ronald Reagan (which he was challenged on, and had no adequate reply), it is dangerous for the body politic and fuels support for legislation that could suppress the vote. He still seems obsessed with the Hillary Clinton email scandal, even as more and more stories about his own lax security practices are on the front pages of the news.

JUST WATCHED Trump: I'd love to meet with black caucus Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: I'd love to meet with black caucus 01:10

Despite the flood of reports about the connections between the Russians and top members of his campaign, Trump did nothing to indicate he was taking this seriously and that he was bothered by what was revealed.

Read More

*Jorge Benitez is the director of NATOSource and a senior fellow at the Atlantic Council. You can follow him on Twitter @NATOSource . The opinions expressed in this commentary are his.

(CNN) This week, Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis is meeting with NATO defense ministers. On May 25, President Donald Trump will attend his first NATO summit.

At these meetings, both men will communicate the urgency the new Trump administration is placing on greater defense spending from our allies.

Trump will not be satisfied with traditional excuses and will probably express his blunt message that NATO allies have been " very unfair to us.

Most of our European allies will not be able to meet their NATO commitments on defense spending, but they can help fund a key defense initiative that will save relations with the Trump administration and also strengthen security in Europe: a multinational deterrence initiative, or MDI.

After Russia seized Crimea and invaded eastern Ukraine, the Obama administration created the European Reassurance Initiative (ERI) to fund actions that would make further Russian aggression less likely.

The ERI paid for more NATO exercises, improved infrastructure to facilitate the deployment and training of NATO forces of new members, and kept some US military units in Europe that were scheduled to be withdrawn. For 2017, the funding was quadrupled to $3.4 billion and the name was changed to the European Deterrence Initiative (EDI).

But, Obama's EDI is a unilateral effort that places the defense burden almost exclusively on the US. The Obama administration only asked for European contributions after the fact and, even then, its efforts were mostly half-hearted.

But why would allies change their defense spending for Trump, when they ignored pleas from previous US leaders such as President Obama and Robert Gates ? Because this time the Europeans have something substantial to lose. Unless America's allies join in contributing to the MDI, the Trump administration will probably cut or eliminate EDI funding all together.

The loss of EDI funding will have profound geostrategic consequences in Europe. It will mean the withdrawal of US forces. Those would include, at least, the 3rd Brigade Combat Team (BCT) and other units such as some US F-15 warplanes and attack helicopters. It may even require the withdrawal of the US battalion in Poland.

Militarily, it will be a significant blow to the capabilities of US forces. Politically, it will be seen as evidence of Trump's abandonment of Europe and will have a devastating effect on America's allies. It will also serve as a dangerous encouragement for greater Russian provocations against NATO members.

America's allies need to offer something tangible to Trump, like the MDI, to prevent the loss of EDI funds for US forces in Europe.

They should begin by increasing their defense spending to fulfill their NATO commitments. But most allies have so far to go and it is such a domestically challenging issue that it is certain not even half of NATO members will meet this target -- this year or the next. While a good faith effort is necessary, it is not sufficient. The deteriorating security situation in Europe and the expectations of the Trump administration will demand more.

The new MDI provides more and it provides it now, right when Europe needs it. It is a solution that is small enough to be feasible and implemented this year. America's allies spend about $240 billion on defense each year. An extra $3.4 billion (less than 1.5%) from all 27 of them is not an unreasonable amount to strengthen deterrence. Yet it is an amount large enough to match the US investment and thus help convince the new President to rotate more US troops into Europe, rather than out of the continent.

America's European allies are already making valuable contributions to European security. Examples are the participation of about 5,000 allied troops in exercise ANAKONDA in Poland and the deployment of allied warships in the Black Sea. These steps have merit, but they are too few and for the most part uncoordinated. They should pool these activities together through the MDI and fund more of them to rise to the level of the US investment in the MDI.

Channeling the contributions of allies through the MDI rather than unilateral efforts will provide accountability for NATO's European pillar and make it easier for national leaders to overrule their finance ministers.

The Trump administration is a tectonic change in transatlantic relations. Business as usual will not work.

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

If America's allies offer Mattis and Trump only pledges of support that go unfulfilled, they will provoke a US response that may cause historic damage to security in Europe. But if they act responsibly and join our investment in strengthening defense on their continent, they will help deter further Russian aggression and ensure America's continued role in keeping the peace.

*Paul Begala, a Democratic strategist and CNN political commentator, was a political consultant for Bill Clinton's presidential campaign in 1992 and was counselor to Clinton in the White House. He was a consultant to Priorities USA Action, the pro-Hillary Clinton super PAC. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his.

(CNN) In the face of mounting revelations of contacts between his campaign advisers and Russian intelligence, Donald Trump's best strategy is to come clean: release his tax returns , answer all questions, recuse Attorney General Jeff Sessions from any inquiries and fully cooperate with an independent investigation. That is the only way to put to rest once and for all the notion that the President is compromised by our adversaries in Moscow.

Fat chance.

Skilled in the dark arts of deception, Trump instead is turning to a favorite tactic, one that has served him well in the past: Deploy weapons of mass distraction. "Look over there!" he yells, and we do. As a reality TV star, he knows our attention span is short, our desire for drama acute and our interest in shiny new objects extreme.

So he's shouting "Sabotage!" He's decrying leaks, and his allies are calling for an investigation of the leakers. Not of the Russians. Not of the campaign advisers who U.S. investigators' allege spoke with Russians repeatedly throughout the campaign. Not of the supposed compromising information the Russians are reported to have on our new President. No, he's attacking the whistleblowers.

Keep in mind that when he paid $25 million to people suing him for fraud over Trump University, he distracted the media by tweeting an attack on the cast of the Broadway musical "Hamilton. " Mr. Trump apparently thought it was rude for cast members to lecture Mike Pence about diversity and inclusion. Because we all know Donald Trump is a stickler for good manners.

But it won't work this time. Because this time the story goes on, whether he likes it or not. Nothing short of full disclosure and an independent investigation will end the story of Russia's attempt to tilt the election to Trump.

Donald Trump whining about leaks is like Jack the Ripper complaining about paper cuts. He is President in large part due to leaks. Had the Russians not hacked and robbed the emails of the Democratic National Committee and of Secretary Hillary Clinton's campaign chairman, and then weaponized them through WikiLeaks, Trump would probably not be president. In a race determined by fewer than 80,000 votes, that's hard to dispute.

And in the final days of the campaign, FBI Director James Comey released a letter which essentially reopened an investigation into Hillary Clinton's emails once again -- based on....well, nothing. Turned out those Anthony Weiner emails had nothing to do with Hillary Clinton's case. But the damage was done.

JUST WATCHED Manafort, Flynn spoke regularly with Russians Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Manafort, Flynn spoke regularly with Russians 01:43

It should be noted that Comey apparently knew about the Trump operatives' contacts with the Russians. But somehow that never leaked. The contrast between how Comey handled the Clinton case and how he handled the Trump-Russia case boggles the mind.

Donald Trump has benefited from leaks more than the CEO of Depends. So forgive me if I am unpersuaded by Trump's complaints about them.

They will keep coming. Perhaps because the system of checks and balances seems to be broken. With Republican control of Congress, a full congressional investigation is unlikely. Sen. Rand Paul (R-Kentucky) candidly told us why. "I just don't think it's useful to be doing investigation after investigation," Paul told the "Kilmeade & Friends" radio show. "Particularly of your own party. We'll never even get started with doing the things we need to do, like repealing Obamacare, if we're spending our whole time having Republicans investigate Republicans. I think it makes no sense."

Republicans don't investigate Republicans. Congressional Republicans will not fulfill their oversight obligations; that might interfere with important things, like kicking 20 million Americans off health insurance.

JUST WATCHED Flynn called victim of political assassination Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Flynn called victim of political assassination 01:29

So sensible whistleblowers probably won't go to the Hill. And they may not trust the Justice Department, either. After all, our new attorney general was an early and effective Trump supporter, and he has no appetite for recusing himsel f from investigating a campaign he played a crucial role in.

That leaves the free press. The Fourth Estate is the only option for whistleblowers. When the justice system seems compromised and congressional oversight is negligent, government officials with damning information are going to leak. And leak. And leak.

I suppose there is some poetic justice in seeing the man who was made President because of leaks potentially hobbled by them. If you live by the leak, you die by the leak.

*Alan Judd is a novelist and biographer who worked in the British Foreign Office and is the authorized biographer of the founder of MI6. The opinions in this commentary are his own.

(CNN) Look away for a moment from the sparks flying from the big question of the day -- what General Flynn did or didn't say to the Russian ambassador , who knew what and when, who leaked, who else might be involved -- and consider how the new administration has got itself into this position . And how it might get itself out of it.

President Trump's current antagonistic stance towards his intelligence and security agencies dates, we all recall, from before his election , when he characterized them as part of the smug, Democrat-inclined Washington establishment that he aimed to overturn.

At the same time they -- the FBI in this case -- were in hot water with the Democrats for supposedly breaking rules by going public on investigations into Hillary Clinton's insecure emails. Intelligence is like sex when it gets mixed up with domestic politics: everyone takes sides and, in the end, all parties suffer. There are no winners.

Since taking office, President Trump has maintained his hostile attitude, despite appointing such people as Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and CIA Director Mike Pompeo who know what they're about and are getting on and doing it.

Policy with regard to Russia has become the toxic issue dividing the President -- in his own perception -- from an intelligence establishment that he sees as still mired in Cold War thinking and out to sabotage him and his government. He thinks he has nothing to learn from them.

He should think again and talk to them.

He should start by asking himself what intelligence agencies are for. In both the US and the UK systems, they exist primarily to bring truth to power, to tell governments not what they want to hear, but what they need to know about threats at home and abroad.

They may influence policy, but they don't determine it -- if the President seeks a more conciliatory policy towards Russia, then it is for him to bring it about. The intelligence agencies may not like it, but they are staffed by loyal government servants who will go along with it because their duty is to the government of the day.

At the same time, they will not hesitate to warn him of pitfalls: when the Russians are deceiving him, for instance, or when they have a concealed agenda, or when they have understood something differently to how he has understood it. That is their job and his job will be a lot easier if he embraces them, rather than chucks stones at their windows. For if he does embrace them, he would be the first to be told of any wrong-doing by his supporters and would have time to react before it leaks -- as in Washington nearly everything does, eventually.

In Britain, during the Second World War, Prime Minister Churchill had very frequent private meetings -- often while he was still in bed -- with the Chief of MI6 (Britain's CIA equivalent), which meant that he saw the latest intelligence before it came up to him through the system.

As a result, he was often better informed than his chiefs of staff.

After the war, Churchill's Labour Party successor, Clement Attlee, saw the head of MI5 (FBI equivalent) more frequently than any Prime Minister before or since. One of the main reasons was that the Prime Minister wanted to be told about members of his party who were spies or secret communists -- bad news for him, but it meant he could take pre-emptive action. He could be confident that the Leader of the Opposition -- Churchill by then -- would be told only about wrongdoers within his own party.

This is the kind of relationship President Trump could achieve with his agencies if he were prepared to follow normal procedures and encourage them to bring him the bad news in confidence. This is why he should talk to them directly, rather than via Twitter.

As for the leaks in question, does the President actually know where they came from? They could have come from within the agencies themselves, although they have a pretty good record for discretion where intercepts are concerned. They could have come from someone among those to whom they report -- their official and political customers.

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

If the President were to embrace his agencies, however, he -- and they -- should take care not to get too close. Once he discovered what they could tell him and do for him, the temptation to misuse them for his own political ends would be considerable -- an equal danger to both parties. Or he might be tempted to brag about what he knows, thereby compromising their sources.

Either way, whether embracing those who are there to help him or keeping them at a distance, President Trump would do well to adapt the wise words of one of his distinguished predecessors: talk quietly and listen long. And don't threaten the big stick.

*(CNN) Michael Flynn, the ex-national security adviser, stepped down on Monday at the request of President Donald Trump, who had reportedly lost faith in him for misleading Vice President Pence about his communications with Russia's ambassador. The White House apparently is satisfied with this resolution. What if Congress isn't satisfied and has some questions for Flynn too?

Most people are familiar with the legislature's role as a lawmaker. But Congress also has b road investigatory authority , an implied power flowing from the Constitution itself.

The Supreme Court long ago validated congressional investigations, holding in the 1920s that congressional committees may issue subpoenas, compel witnesses to testify -- and hold them in contempt for failure to comply. In modern times, Congress can compel sworn testimony and records from just about anyone: gangsters , professional baseball players ; you name them, Congress can investigate them. Appearance is not optional, either. The Supreme Court has made it crystal clear that a person is legally required to comply with a congressional subpoena.

Meanwhile, over in the executive branch, there exists a formidable privilege that protects the confidentiality of a president's communications in the performance of his responsibilities The Watergate cases from the 1970s established this presidential confidentiality privilege as an essential part of the separation of powers doctrine.

The idea behind the privilege is that the full and frank exchange between the president and his advisers would be discouraged if those communications were left unprotected; in other words, the public supposedly benefits from records and communications that the president keeps secret ... from the public.

JUST WATCHED Trump: Flynn a wonderful man, treated unfairly Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: Flynn a wonderful man, treated unfairly 02:14

So then -- could a congressional committee investigate and subpoena Michael Flynn?

As with many things in the law ... it's hard to say.

If Flynn were subpoenaed, the Trump administration would likely oppose and assert that executive privilege acts as an absolute immunity preventing Flynn from being compelled to give testimony before Congress. Congress may not accept that assertion of privilege. Then, the case could end up in federal court.

And in these cases between the executive and legislative branches, the courts make their position known: Leave us out of it.

The judiciary has historically insisted that the political branches settle disputes like this rather than drag the courts into the fray. The courts impose a constitutional duty f or the executive and Congress to attempt to work out these disputes before filing suit -- and they will kick the other branches right out of court if they haven't tried to resolve their issues first.

JUST WATCHED Tempers boil over Trump, Russia relationship Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Tempers boil over Trump, Russia relationship 01:47

Suppose then, just as a hypothetical, Flynn gets subpoenaed, and one of the branches is particularly stubborn and unwilling to compromise on the scope of executive privilege. Then, the courts could be imposed upon to decide a rarely-litigated issue, fraught with constitutional peril: Who wins when congressional power comes head-to-head with executive privilege? And how far does this executive privilege extend down the chain of command?

On the one hand, communications made by presidential advisers in the course of preparing advice for the president come unde r the presidential communications privilege, even when these communications are not made directly to the president. President Trump, like his predecessors, depends on his advisers, and those advisers need freedom to obtain information from knowledgeable sources. The communications they author must be privileged, as well as the communications solicited and received by them.

JUST WATCHED Flynn's fall is tip of the iceberg Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Flynn's fall is tip of the iceberg 04:41

Also, absolute immunity may be justified for presidential aides entrusted with discretionary authority in sensitive areas like national security or foreign policy. But this function must be so sensitive as to require such a total shield from liability. But does the privilege extend beyond close aides, out to the agencies?

Courts recognize that it would frustrate the goals of an open government to extend this executive privilege to every person working in the executive branch -- if there's an argument that every executive employee "helps" the chief executive, then the entire branch becomes "privileged." Consequently, courts have specifically limited the privilege to White House staff with "operational proximity" to presidential decision-making.

So can agency heads categorically claim this privilege? Not as a rule, according to the DC Court of Appeals. Not every person who plays a role in the development of presidential advice can qualify for the privilege. That court specifically held that the privilege should not automatically extend to staff outside the White House in executive branch agencies.

Congress would probably be interested in Flynn's -- or any member of the Trump team's -- communications with Russian ambassadors or intelligence agencies, even if they occurred before Trump was sworn in. The Trump administration might then be in the uncomfortable position of arguing that Flynn's communications served the president, so they are privileged. But ... that could be tantamount to admitting presidential involvement in apparently improper discussions.

The administration might argue that Flynn's communications involved sensitive foreign policy or national defense functions, but that might be tough too, given that Flynn was not even technically "in" the administration yet.

Here's the thing: because so few courts have decided cases on the executive privilege, the scope has largely been defined by each administration. Some presidents have sought to expand the privilege. But recent presidents have recognized some self-imposed limits on this privilege, stating they would not interfere with congressional investigations of potential executive branch fraud or corruption.

It's hard to imagine the current president wanting to saddle himself with such self-imposed restraints. It's also hard to imagine the executive branch resolving a privilege issue with Congress without having to resort to the courts. Despite their established preference to stay out of these cases, federal judges might soon see these parties in court.

*Doug Heye is a CNN political commentator and former deputy chief of staff to then-House Majority Leader Eric Cantor. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own.

(CNN) While much of Washington is absorbed with the latest machinations of the Trump White House, congressional Republicans are finding scores of voters showing up at their town halls and other events. And those voters are angry.

This should not be a surprise.

Look no farther than Raleigh, North Carolina, where tens of thousands marched this past weekend and where for nearly four years, well-organized liberal protests called " Moral Mondays " packed the state Capitol each week, protesting actions on voting access and the HB2 "bathroom bill." These created weekly headaches for state legislators, and brought the bright glare of local and national news cameras, who often covered the protests live.

The protests did not succeed in having the Legislature reverse itself on any of the issues being protested, but succeeded with a larger goal -- Republican Gov. Pat McCrory was voted out of office

But this isn't limited to one city . Events by Reps. Justin Amash, Gus Bilirakis and Tom McClintock, and a joint "constituent service day" with the staffs of Sens. Johnny Isakson and David Perdue and Rep. Jody Hice aimed at helping voters facing specific issues with the federal government, have been disrupted.

In addressing a crowd of nearly 1,000 the Salt Lake Tribune called a "hostile and harassing audience," Utah Republican Jason Chaffetz was greeted with chants of "Do your job!" It's no wonder the House Republican Conference is briefing members on how to ensure security at events.

Some Republicans argue these protests are "AstroTurf" and "phony," and that behind them are organized Democratic activists, paid or otherwise, who are happy to cross district lines and make noise.

Sure, on the one hand these are clearly well-organized, which means the Democrats are utilizing their huge organizational networks to support these events. That of course does not mean that it's a bunch of paid protesters, as clearly there are a lot of citizens who are concerned about President Trump's plans on the travel ban and repealing Obamacare, among other issues.

What Republicans shouldn't forget is that Democrats who criticized the 2009 and 2010 tea party protests missed the point and lost their House majority.

Democrats were caught flat-footed. They ignored or dismissed the protests, while insulting patriotic Americans angry at the direction of the country. Republicans would be smart to learn in advance the lessons Democrats learned the hard way.

That starts with planning; whether a member hosts large town halls, or smaller events, congressional offices must be ready when targeted with a protest, a rude questioner or opposition campaign aides filming events up close. These may not happen at a public town hall, but at a private event that gets leaked or an event held at a private business.

This includes:

1. Developing a plan of action

Will protesters be engaged? If so, how? Will meetings be public or private? Are attendees allowed to film? One House member told me last week they are happy to meet with protesters, but given their district office location, they have to limit groups to 10 or less. Is this workable? And how, if at all, will the member or senator participate? Will open town halls be held at all?

2. Controlling the optics

Leaving through a back door into a waiting black SUV to avoid protests never looks good. Neither does walking through a group of people screaming. Or having large bodyguards. Are there entrances and exits that are completely private? Are there less expensive automobiles? Bonus points if the politician drives himself or herself.

3. Utilizing social media

Post pictures from the meeting demonstrating an eagerness to hear from all viewpoints. Thank those for coming. Smile. Meanwhile, ensure that your staff is sharing these across social media platforms and that supporters will similarly share through their networks. The opposition certainly will.

4. Remember, these are your constituents

Treat them accordingly. Whether it's the politician or staff, constituents expect to have their concerns listened to respectfully. Those yelling, waving signs with foul language or screaming a message that consists of "RESIST!" will not be their own best advocates. Don't get in their way and don't take the bait. Don't be a shrinking violet, but be polite. Offer them coffee.

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

Open town halls harken back to the high-minded civic (and civil) debates we imagine of our founding fathers. In reality, though, they often reward the loudest, angriest voices at the expense of respectful discussion, as we are seeing now.

But members of Congress, regardless of party, are not bound to host events that run the risk of becoming free-for-alls. Besides, if a politician wants to learn more about education, health care or small business issues, visiting schools, community health centers and local businesses are more effective vehicles to learn the challenges we face.

There are other ways to hear what's on constituents' minds. Congressional offices talk to constituents every day and get feedback from phone calls through the mail and online. Many host virtual or tele-town halls while Congress is in session. Local district offices exist solely for the purpose of being responsive to constituents' concerns.

Democrats smell blood, and with Congress out of session next week -- and a media eager to cover these confrontations -- they will be out in full force. Republican senators and members of Congress need to prepare now, and even cancel large-scale events, or be ready to be next week's bad headline.

*Story highlights McTernan: President Trump's defeat of Hillary Clinton did not rewrite the laws of politics

Misleading the media, it turns out, is as bad in the era of the tweeting President as it was in that of the President as Orator-in-Chief

John McTernan is a former speechwriter for ex-British Prime Minister Tony Blair and ex-communications director to former Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his.

(CNN) "All political careers end in failure" was the famous saying of British politician Enoch Powell.

It is a very memorable phrase because it highlights one of the fundamental laws of politics -- that there is such a thing as political gravity.

However high you fly, you will eventually fall to earth. Tony Blair was one of the most popular British prime ministers in history, but his reputation has yet to recover from the aftermath of the Iraq War.

President Obama ended his two terms in office with high approval ratings but is now seeing his legacy dismantled after his party failed to win a third consecutive term in office.

The watchword of leadership should always be "Beware!" -- you always have less time than you think. Less time to achieve radical change. Less time to assemble coalitions of support. Less time until the shine comes off you.

Read More

*Frida Ghitis is a world affairs columnist for The Miami Herald and World Politics Review, and a former CNN producer and correspondent. The views expressed in this commentary are her own.

(CNN) If President Donald Trump's administration thinks that Mike Flynn's departure from his post as national security adviser will bring an end to the scandal that ended his tenure, it is about find out that just the opposite is true. This crisis is not over; it's only beginning.

Trump and his close White House circle wanted Flynn to fall on his sword, taking the blame for inappropriate and possibly illegal telephone conversations he held with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak during the transition period. In those calls, Flynn reportedly reassured Moscow that sanctions imposed by President Barack Obama over Russia's hacking of the US election would be lifted by the incoming administration.

When news of the phone calls became public , and as recently as a week ago Wednesday, Flynn vehemently denied he had discussed sanctions -- and the denials were repeated by press secretary Sean Spicer and by Vice President Mike Pence . We now know that version of events was false. That brings to mind one of America's most poignant political history lessons: The cover up is worse than the crime, a legacy from the Watergate scandal that brought down a president.

In this case, however, even if there had been no cover up of what transpired during those calls, there are reasons for concern.

The official line is that Flynn "misled" the vice president and other administration officials. But that, remember, comes from an administration fond of "alternative facts." We don't know if the denials were due to Flynn giving " incomplete information ," as he described it, to his colleagues, or were simply talking points created by White House political operatives. The larger more important suggestion tacitly embedded in the administration's new version of events is that Flynn was a rogue national security adviser, who was freelancing when he contacted an official from a hostile foreign government, rather than a team player implementing approved policy. According to their preferred version, Flynn's departure severs the rotten limb, solving the problem.

But the fact is that the only reason Flynn's phone calls made headlines is because they involved Russia. And when it comes to Russia and the Trump administration, Americans are deeply suspicious, and justified in their doubts. Since early in his presidential campaign, Trump's pronouncements regarding Russia were raising eyebrows, as he suggested lifting sanctions and radically transforming policies that had strong bipartisan support.

When Trump brought to his campaign Paul Manafort, a man with close and controversial ties to powerful interests in Russia, it heightened concerns about links to that country. And when the campaign pressured the Republican party to scrub its platform of criticism of the Kremlin and support for Ukraine, those concerns appeared to be borne out.

Later, US intelligence agencies concluded that Russia had interfered in the US election seeking to help Trump win the presidency. Not long after that, news emerged of a secret dossier compiled by a former British intelligence officer, claiming that Trump surrogates and Russian officials had worked together to help the Trump campaign. The charges -- many still uncorroborated -- added to the questions surrounding the Trump team and Russia.

That is why the Flynn phone calls resonated. If Flynn had conducted legally problematic telephone conversations with the ambassador of just about any other country on Earth, the matter would probably have died. But promises of lifting sanctions against Russia touched a very sensitive nerve.

Flynn's departure after just three weeks in office is a dramatic political blow to the administration, but it will do nothing to make the issue disappear.

To the contrary, it adds urgency to the matter. After all, there is no proof that the phone calls were an independent, unauthorized activity, and talk of lifting sanctions -- the subject of the conversations -- fits neatly with Trump's controversial pronouncements on the campaign trail. On its face, it also jibes with the rest of the sordid Russian interference in the election.

This is not to say that Flynn's departure is a meaningless development. The loss of a top aide during the first month of the new presidency is a hard-to-scrub stain on the administration. And when that official is the controversial Mike Flynn, the move is hardly inconsequential.

JUST WATCHED Conway: Flynn knew he became a lightning rod Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Conway: Flynn knew he became a lightning rod 02:30

Trump critics can rightly rejoice in knowing that Flynn will no longer sit near the Oval Office. Flynn has a track record that includes not only questionable dealings with Russia , but also a troubling inability to distinguish between Islamic radicals and everyday Muslims . Most disturbing of all, in my view, has been Flynn's appetite for bizarre conspiracy theories . When the top national security adviser to the US President believes outlandish internet rumors enough to personally disseminate them over social media, it is no exaggeration to say it puts the world at risk. That particular risk, thankfully, is now removed, or at least lessened.

Flynn's odd relationship with reality was on display until the last moment, when he tendered his resignation saying he was honored to have served , "in such a distinguished way." It was an oddly Trumpian, self-congratulatory characterization of a record-short stint that ended in disaster.

It was hardly helpful to Flynn or to the Trump administration that members of the Russian parliament mounted a fierce defense of the fallen adviser. In both chambers of the Russian parliament, the heads of the foreign affairs committees defended Flynn, decrying what they view as paranoia about Russia spreading in the United States.

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

For both Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin, the continuing storm surrounding their relationship means sanctions are unlikely to be lifted any time soon. If Trump removed the sanctions in this environment it would amount to pulling the pin on a political grenade.

There is, of course, a way to ease the paranoia. But that will require putting the Trump-Putin relationship under the microscope. Something Trump perhaps would rather avoid.

Flynn's fall does nothing to ease Trump's Russia-related political crisis. It is just one more marker along a road leading the Trump presidency to an uncertain destination.

*Story highlights Michael Flynn's resignation is another moment of vulnerability for the new president, whose praise for Putin's Russia has put him at odds with the GOP majority on Capitol Hill, writes Julian Zelizer

Zelizer says it could fuel investigations of the role of Russia in the election

(CNN) Michael T. Flynn's resignation is the second major blow to the Trump administration within the span of a week.

After the courts stopped the President's executive order halting admission of refugees, his national security adviser is forced to step down amid revelations of his discussions with Russian officials following the election. The resignation comes in the wake of mixed signals from the White House about what would happen to Flynn

It is not a total surprise that Flynn is the first major member of the administration to fall from power. He has always been one of the most controversial figures in Trump's inner circle. A national security adviser whose views were seen as far outside the mainstream, Flynn bought into conspiracy theories and made anti-Islamic statements.

When he joined the chant of "lock her up" against Hillary Clinton at the Republican National Convention he made it clear that this military official had turned into a rabid partisan attack dog. Many national security experts shuddered to think that Flynn, with his outlandish views, would be the last person in the room when President Trump was making decisions about war and peace.

Now that he is gone the question is whether this turns into something bigger. The problem with Flynn was not simply his own actions but his part in a broader story that has been nagging Trump since the campaign -- why is he so sympathetic to Russia and what kinds of connections have existed, if any, between his inner circle and a foreign government that aggressively intervened in the 2016 election.

Read More

*(CNN) Of all the diplomatic clouds hanging over President Donald Trump's White House, the darkest and most malevolent is Russia . Yet since he came to office, the gaping hole in Trump's foreign policy pronouncements has been on exactly this subject.

While there has been almost radio silence on Russia,Trump has had time to reverse course on China, now accepting its "One China" policy. On Iran, Trump took little time putting the theocracy "on notice" for unspecified retaliation, should it threaten the interests of the US or its allies.

But his plans for Russia remain an enigma wrapped in layers of potential personal and business controversy. The the omission is all the more glaring as Trump has previously implied that Putin is central to his much-vaunted aim to destroy ISIS and make Americans safe.

Trump's vacillation between professed admiration for Putin, to claims that he doesn't know the man, to saying that "If Putin likes Trump ... that's called an asset," leaves not just Americans wondering what he plans for the future of the US-Russia relationship, but the Kremlin also.

In recent days, sources in Moscow have complained of disarray at the US State Department, claiming that they don't know who is in charge of what and whom they should speak to about key issues.

Now, a key member of the Trump administration resigns because of a scandal that centers on the revelation that he discussed US sanctions on Russia with the Russian ambassador. No wonder Moscow is confused. Russia has denied that Flynn and the ambassador discussed sanctions, despite Flynn's resignation.

Some of these concerns might have begun to be laid to rest this week, as Trump's "A Team" of Vice President Mike Pence, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Secretary of Defense James Mattis fly to Europe for a series of key meetings.

But with Flynn's departure hanging in the air, the President may feel under-represented on any future talks with Russia.

Russia currently sits at the center of a number of the crises facing the world. In Syria, it outmaneuvered Obama to become the central player in brokering any kind of peace deal. In Europe, the Russian intervention in Ukraine and annexation of Crimea in 2014 triggered a chain of events that has reached near boiling point, with more and more NATO troops deploying to Eastern Europe. All of this is happening at a time when many are questioning the future of NATO -- something that plays to Putin's desires: witness his eagerness to draw NATO and US ally Turkey to his side in the Syria conflict.

JUST WATCHED Michael Flynn in 60 seconds Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Michael Flynn in 60 seconds 01:00

Trump is potentially the friendliest US President Russia is likely to find in a long time. But shorn of a national security adviser who once sat next to Putin at dinner and was paid to appear on pro-Kremlin media, the Kremlin may wonder if it's really worth waiting for Trump. Only weeks ago when Obama expelled several dozen Russian diplomats, the Kremlin held its nerve and didn't resort to the normal diplomatic tit-for-tat expulsions.

Pence, Tillerson and Mattis leave behind them a chaotic, Tim Burton-esque Camelot: a king who tried to run before he could walk and graceless courtiers who make a mockery of themselves, their roles and the monarch. Add to those handicaps an unpopular press secretary who says things that are proven to be untrue; a dissembling adviser with no facts and little grip on the truth; a senior adviser utterly lacking in humility whose propensity for alternate facts defies logic; and last but by no means least, Flynn, whose tenure as national security adviser is the shortest on record and whose own alternate facts cost him his job.

Pence, Tillerson and Mattis must now explain the madness of Trump's first month to reassure some of the US's most important allies that the country is not totally out of control.

If they fail to do that over the next few days with meetings in Bonn, Brussels and Munich, they risk a sterile relationship with some of America's oldest allies.

Europe, without doubt, is experiencing its own annus horribilis, Brexit, insurgent populists in Trump's mold and, to cap it all, a financial crisis in the south.

But despite all of these pressing issues, somewhere near top of the agenda will be how best to tame the Russian Bear: are Europe and the US ready to jump in the cage along side it, or should they leave the bear in the cage and keep it at a safe distance.

The Russians are the most in need of all those waiting to see Trump's Three Horsemen. Putin wants to be respected as a global power player. He wants suzerainty in Syria, forgiveness for invading Ukraine, and increasingly -- along with his ally Iran -- to set the agenda in the Arab world.

Where Trump is on any of this is the biggest conundrum; where he is without Flynn, who appears at the very least to have been a primary channel to Russia, is even more of a mystery.

JUST WATCHED Flynn: One of the greatest presidencies Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Flynn: One of the greatest presidencies 02:57

The Kremlin says that the pair still plan to meet, but to discuss what is unclear. Can Trump really make an ally of Putin over killing off of ISIS, and simultaneously reduce Russia's strategic weapons arsenals, as has been suggested?

It is possible that Russia will now see what the rest of the world appears to be slowly waking up to now: that wiser hands in the form of Tillerson and Mattis are taking up their administration posts and slowly shifting Trump away from his Russian embrace.

Mattis and Tillerson have both been critical of Russia. Trump's ambassador to the UN, Nikki Haley, has raised the bar on Europe's sanctions on Russia, saying it must not only comply with the Minsk agreement, but get out of Crimea if it wants the US to lift sanctions too.

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

It's little wonder, then, that the Kremlin wants clarity and no surprise that they'll be keener than ever for a face-to-face chat with the President. How else will they remind the President of their importance in solving many of the problems facing him?

But here's the rub: as European leaders will likely appeal to the US delegation to isolate Russia for the sake of European stability, the fact remains that Russia has successfully placed itself at the center of many of the greatest problems facing the planet.

Time is running out and Trump needs to make a decision about that bear and his cage.

*Tim Holbrook is a professor of law at Emory University School of Law. He is a member of the boards of directors of the Transgender Legal Defense and Education Fund and the Stonewall Bar Association of Georgia. The views expressed are his and his alone.

(CNN) There has been some uncertainty as to how President Donald Trump would treat the rights of members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer community. For example, during the Republican National Convention, President Trump became the first Republican presidential nominee to mention the LGBTQ community. Of course, he did so in a very narrow context -- protecting LGBTQ persons from terrorism by radical Islamists.

The President noted that Caitlyn Jenner was welcome to use the bathroom of her choice in Trump Towers. He also stated the issue of same-sex marriage is "settled."

These statements could be viewed as a gesture by Trump to be more inclusive to the LGBTQ community. In contrast, his choices of Vice President Michael Pence and Attorney General Jeff Sessions were viewed as troubling, because both Pence and Sessions have opposed LGBTQ rights.

The Trump administration showed its hand on Friday, when the Department of Justice withdrew its request that a Texas district court lift its stay in a case dealing with access to bathrooms for transgender students. The Obama administration had issued guidance that schools should permit transgender students to use bathrooms that correspond with their gender identity. The Texas court blocked implementation of this approach.

JUST WATCHED Trump campaign website offers 'LGBTQ for Trump' shirts Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump campaign website offers 'LGBTQ for Trump' shirts 08:46

Under the Obama administration, DOJ had asked the appellate court to reject the stay. The Trump DOJ has withdrawn support, removing its backing for these transgender students. It turns out the Trump DOJ, under Attorney General Jeff Sessions, is not a friend to the LGBTQ community.

This move may be a harbinger. Across the country, there are a number of lawsuits arguing that federal law should prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. During the Obama administration, most of these lawsuits had the backing of the DOJ, Department of Education, and Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Part of the arguments in these cases is that the courts should give deference to these agencies' interpretations of the relevant federal civil rights statutes.

For example, the Supreme Court is scheduled to hear arguments in Gloucester County School Board v. G.G. on March 28. The lower court determined that a trans boy should be able to use the boys' restroom in his public high school. One of the issues the Supreme Court is addressing is whether courts should afford such deference to these types of agency pronouncements.

If the Trump administration changes its position in the case, it may remove that issue from the case and, seemingly, could tip the case against the transgender student. DOJ's action in the Texas case strongly suggests it will no longer support the trans student.

Similarly, a case out of Indiana is pending before a federal court of appeals, addressing whether federal anti-discrimination laws protect gays , lesbians and bisexuals against discrimination based on their sexual orientation. The EEOC has supported this position. Again, if the Trump administration alters its position on this issue, it could result in a loss to the LGBTQ plaintiff and a defeat for LGBTQ nondiscrimination protections.

The Texas withdrawal of the challenge to the stay is an ominous omen. It suggests the Trump administration will pivot away from protecting the civil rights of LGBTQ persons. The withdrawal of support may tip these cases against the LGBTQ litigants.

While losses in these cases would be detrimental, there is even more at risk, such as marriage equality. Trump, in his pre-inauguration "60 Minutes" interview, stated that marriage equality was "settled" under the Supreme Court's decision in Obergefell v. Hodges . But he has also promised to appoint justices who will overrule the over 40-year precedent of Roe v. Wade. Of course, justices opposed to Roe are likely to be opposed to the far more recent establishment of marriage equality.

The same objections that judges and justices opposed to Roe have made apply equally to marriage equality: They argue that the court has manufactured new "rights" that do not exist in the Constitution. Additionally, there can be considerable overlap among those opposed to abortion and same-sex relationships, particularly on moral and religious grounds. If a case gets to the Supreme Court with Trump-appointed justices, the court could reject marriage equality.

Such challenges to marriage equality will not be difficult to manufacture by the states. Tennessee has already introduced legislation again to ban same-sex marriage . Any judicial challenge could end up at the Supreme Court.

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

At present, the broader threat to marriage equality is not as pressing. Even if Judge Neil Gorsuch is confirmed to the court, his presence will not change the court's political composition. The five justices who voted for marriage equality are still present, so, in the near term, marriage equality is safe. And it would be unlikely for the court to undo any existing same-sex marriages. But, if one of those five justices retires or dies, it is not difficult to fathom Trump appointing a justice who would be happy to overrule Obergefell.

The action by the DOJ in Texas on its face seems minor. In fact, it is quite revealing. LGBTQ rights will not be defended at the federal level. Those in favor of LGBTQ equality will need to defend themselves against efforts in states to ban the use of restrooms and to embrace so-called religious-liberty bills. The fight is now our own. We won't be able to look to this administration for help.

*Zhang Baohui is Professor of Political Science and Director of Centre for Asian Pacific Studies at Lingnan University in Hong Kong. The opinions expressed here are solely his.

(CNN) On Feb 10, the world was surprised by a phone call between US president Donald Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping.

A White House statement described their conversation as "extremely cordial." Most importantly for Xi, Trump affirmed US commitment to the "One China" policy.

This phone call, together with a personal letter from Trump to Xi two days earlier , which expressed US interests in seeking "constructive relations" with China, removed many of the uncertainties generated by Trump's earlier comments that the "One China" principle was negotiable.

Domestic setbacks

One plausible explanation of Trump's apparent return to the "One China" principle could be his rising setbacks on the domestic front.

When Trump threatened to link the "One China" principle with Chinese concessions in a number of issue areas, he was rolling with a sense of invincibility after the election.

Foreign leaders were falling over each other to court him. At home and abroad, Trump looked mighty.

However, after assuming the office, Trump has encountered massive domestic frustrations.

His multiple new policy initiatives have run into fierce criticism and opposition by the public, media, and other branches of the government.

According to a poll by CNN /ORC, a majority, 53%, disapprove of the way Trump handles his job, marking the highest disapproval for a new elected president since polls began to track these results.

The result has been that Trump has become increasingly frustrated and vexed by domestic challenges.

The last thing Trump needs is a major fight with China, which would promise to be very nasty with uncertain outcomes.

It is therefore highly likely that Trump opted to return to the "One China" principle after a rethinking about the relative priorities of the domestic and foreign policy agendas of his administration.

China courts the Trumps

Trump's return to the "One China" principle may also be an outcome of China's successful diplomatic efforts, through both conventional and unconventional tactics.

In public, China has been firm in sending out a consistent message to Trump that the "One China" principle involved its fundamental core interests and it will to take a stand and fight to the end.

It has simultaneously pursued unconventional, backdoor approaches to shape his China policy.

Beijing is keenly aware that Trump relies closely on a very small group of advisers to guide him on policy issues, including his son-in-law Jared Kushner and daughter Ivanka Trump.

As such, China has tried to directly influence the first family to smooth relations with Trump. In fact, soon after Trump's election, Kushner attended a dinner hosted by Chinese business tycoon Wu Xiaohui, who presides over Anbang Insurance Group that has an asset of US$285 billion and close ties to the ruling elite of China.

Then on February 1, Trump's daughter Ivanka paid a surprise visit to China's embassy in Washington to attend a Chinese New Year reception

Behind closed doors, China may have succeeded in proactively shaping Trump's position on the "One China" policy through both deterrence and accommodation.

Ways forward

While Trump's stated commitment to the "One China" principle has at least removed a short-term obstacle to Sino-US relations, the future of the bilateral relationship remains challenged.

Multiple issues, ranging from trade, the South China Sea or North Korea's nuclear challenge, may still lead both countries down the path to conflict.

JUST WATCHED Trump and China: What's at stake? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump and China: What's at stake? 02:24

The US and China can do a number of things to minimize conflicts and maximize cooperation.

While the US should refrain from using the "One China" principle to pressure Beijing on the trade front, the latter must consider serious concessions.

The Trump administration does have a legitimate complaint given the massive trade deficit on the US side.

China thus needs to address the "fair trade" issue. Likely concessions include greater access by US firms to the Chinese market.

On the South China Sea issue, the Trump administration's recent statements have been encouraging.

Secretary of Defense James Mattis, during on a recent trip to Japan, expressed that there is no need for the US military to "take drastic" moves in the South China Sea.

Moreover, he said that the US would primarily rely on diplomacy to resolve the South China Sea disputes.

China must not read this as a sign of weakness. Instead, China should refrain from further actions that may escalate the South China Sea conflict with the United States.

Finally, China should make more sincere efforts in containing the nuclear ambitions of North Korea.

Greater efforts by Beijing will not only contribute to regional stability but also strengthen Sino-US cooperation on the issue.

Such efforts can convince the Trump administration that China is indeed doing its best to help the United States with this thorny security issue.

*Jane Merrick is a British political journalist and former political editor of the Independent on Sunday newspaper. The opinions expressed in this commentary are hers.

(CNN) Ahead of her trip to Washington last month , British Prime Minister Theresa May said she hoped to forge strong ties with Donald Trump because "opposites attract."

As it turns out, May and the President have more in common than she might claim: on authoritarian instincts, they are kindred spirits.

According to reports in both The Telegraph and The Guardian newspapers, the British government is considering a new UK law that would criminalize both whistleblowers and journalists who take and report information from whistleblowers, even if they are acting to uncover information in the public interest.

The proposed Espionage Act would update the Official Secrets Act, which was narrowly targeted at breaches of national security.

The new law is supposedly needed for the digital age, yet is so broad in scope it would threaten anyone who leaked government information and those who handled it with jail terms of up to 14 years.

Even though the proposals are at an early stage, they need to be taken seriously. As British Home Secretary, May built a reputation as a "lock them up" authoritarian. Now she seems to have ambitions to be the most illiberal Prime Minister to have ever inhabited 10 Downing Street. It is one thing to get tough on crime; it is quite another to view journalists and whistleblowers as potential criminals.

What is worrying is that the British government probably sees the Espionage Act as something that would have public support.

In Britain, the phone-hacking scandal, in which a small group of reporters were found to have hacked into messages of celebrities and members of the Royal Family, has been used as cover for creeping curbs on the press, from the Leveson inquiry -- a public inquiry into the ethics of the British media -- to a new regulation that would expose journalists to punishing costs in libel cases, even if they won.

JUST WATCHED Czech Republic tackles spread of fake news Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Czech Republic tackles spread of fake news 02:40

This creeping incursion into a free press is fast turning into open season on the media -- and that's just fine in the eyes of politicians like Trump and May.

Politicians in the UK and US are using the failure of the media to get election results right -- from the 2015 British General Election to the Brexit referendum and Trump's victory -- as a license to turn the term "fake news" into a weapon to target legitimate journalism.

In the House of Commons last week, May repeated Kellyanne Conway's expression "alternative facts," while her opposite number, Jeremy Corbyn, used a Trump favorite "fake news" in an interview with the BBC -- the national broadcaster -- rejecting reports that he was considering standing down as leader of the Labour Party.

JUST WATCHED Sanders rips Trump, jokes about 'fake news' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sanders rips Trump, jokes about 'fake news' 11:25

There is no denying that "fake news" exists, on dubious websites shared on Facebook, but when the term is used to describe legitimate, professional journalism based on authoritative, multiple sources, the public should be very worried indeed.

If the "mainstream media" is maligned as an untrustworthy source, where will voters get their information? From those very same dodgy "fake news," websites which can proliferate unregulated? From politicians themselves, unchecked and unaccountable?

This would suit authoritarian administrations very well indeed: it is in their interests to have a weak press. When Steve Bannon last month described the media as the "opposition party," he confirmed the troubling thinking in Trump's inner circle. Attacks on freedoms of the press are sadly an everyday reality in countries like Turkey. It is alarming that, in Britain and the US, journalism is now being painted as the enemy of democracy.

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

The UK Espionage Act would, of course, go far beyond criticizing legitimate reporting as "fake news," as bad as that is. It would seriously impinge the media's ability to expose corruption and wrongdoing by those in authority.

The new law would have criminalized The Guardian newspaper for publishing the leaked Edward Snowden documents (for which the newspaper won a Pulitzer), but it would also have prevented The Daily Telegraph newspaper publishing the details of a leak of British MPs' expenses , which uncovered widespread fiddling -- and in some cases, criminal misuse -- of taxpayers' money by politicians.

Never in modern times has press freedom been so under threat -- and never before has it been so vital for democracy.

*Story highlights Joey Jackson: ICE raids are not new, but advocates and others watching these raids unfold are right to worry

It's one thing to be tough on immigration. It's yet another to be fair, he writes

Joey Jackson is a criminal defense attorney and a legal analyst for CNN and HLN. The views expressed here are solely his.

(CNN) There's a new sheriff in town: President Donald J. Trump has made clear that in matters of immigration, particularly from Mexico, a seismic shift is underway. Only five days after being sworn in, Trump signed a sweeping executive order seeking to both prevent illegal immigration and remove undocumented immigrants.

Among other things, the order seeks the construction of a wall, terminates the "catch and release" procedure whereby undocumented immigrants are detained and released, adds 5,000 border patrol agents, calls for a report quantifying all foreign aid provided by the United States to Mexico annually during the past five years, and makes provisions for greater coordination between federal, state and local governments in implementing immigration policy.

Joey Jackson

Then came the immigration raids . Last week, Immigration and Customs Enforcement sent enforcement squads into cities across the country, from the East Coast of New York to the West Coast of Los Angeles. They did so in an effort to expel from the country those who the President has called "bad dudes." Officials noted that this effort was in the planning stages for weeks, and had little to do with Trump's executive order. It was also pointed out that the Obama administration used these squads and that Obama was referred to by immigrant rights activists as the " Deporter in Chief " for his record of deportations.

But while these raids are not new in and of themselves, advocates and others watching these raids unfold are right to worry whether this President is casting a wider net and expanding the objective in ICE enforcement beyond national security. Of the 160 illegal immigrants arrested during the Trump raids, the vast majority had felony convictions and merited deportation. To be sure, the federal government has a solemn obligation to secure the borders and to protect the public. But there are questions as to the other arrests. The concern from a justice perspective, then, is not the enforcement effort itself. The executive branch enforces the law, and any President is entitled to do so in the manner he deems most effective in keeping with his philosophy. Instead, the concern lies in whether enforcement will be over broad and unduly aggressive.

There's reason to be concerned. Homeland Security Director John Kelly testified before Congress last week for the first time. In doing so, he noted that morale among ICE officers was down under the Obama administration, because they felt like their hands were tied. He further suggested that morale would be boosted under the new President. The implication then, is that the Trump administration will enforce immigration laws more aggressively than previous administrations have.

Read More

*Story highlights Dean Obeidallah: Baldwin's much-touted appearance as host on SNL wasn't all about his portrayal of Trump

SNL gave airtime to portrayals of key Trump administration staffers and made some great political comedy, he writes

Dean Obeidallah, a former attorney, is the host of SiriusXM radio's daily program "The Dean Obeidallah Show" and a columnist for The Daily Beast. Follow him @deanofcomedy. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his.

(CNN) Saturday Night Live is clearly no longer content to just comically fillet Donald Trump. As we saw again in this Saturday night's episode, they are increasingly going after key members of his staff. And if recent media reports are accurate, this seems to be rattling Trump and causing dissension within his administration.

Dean Obeidallah

When I worked on the production staff of SNL for eight seasons, we never knew if the politician or the celebrity the show would be mocking that weekend would be watching. But of course with Donald Trump, we do know. It appears he can't help hate-watching the show. Trump has taken to Twitter on multiple occasions to slam the iconic comedy show, even demanding back in October that it be canceled because he was outraged by the way Alec Baldwin and the show depicted him.

Baldwin hosted the show this past Saturday, and if the sole goal of SNL was to drive Trump to Twitter to lash out, they could've featured many sketches with Baldwin lambasting the President. After all, Trump offers comedians an abundance of material. But instead, the show made a decision to focus more on key members of his administration like Sean Spicer and Kellyanne Conway.

The show opened with Melissa McCarthy reprising her hilarious role from last week as Spicer. This time Spicer tried to remain in control but as time went on he lost it. Soon Spicer was hawking goods for Ivanka Trump's clothing line, which Nordstrom pulled this week for poor sales. And Spicer even comically commented on the racist underpinnings of Trump's "extreme vetting" plan by using a white Barbie doll who easily walks by TSA security agents before a brown skinned "Moana" doll is immediately subjected to a pat down.

Assuming the media reports are accurate that last Saturday's SNL depiction of Spicer got under Trump's skin since a woman was playing Spicer, then the next moment of the cold open must really have angered Trump. That's when his newly sworn-in Attorney General, Jeff Sessions, entered the sketch, played by the amazing Kate McKinnon. And she delivered a great comic line, touching on Session's alleged racist past, "We all know there are two kinds of crime...regular and black."

Read More

*Andrew Koppelman is the John Paul Stevens Professor of Law, and Steven Lubet is the Williams Memorial Professor of Law at the Northwestern University Pritzker School of Law. The opinions expressed in this commentary are their own.

(CNN) Rep. Jason Chaffetz has some explaining to do. As chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, the Utah Republican spared no effort in leading the multiple investigations of Hillary Clinton. Yet he has shown little interest in investigating, or even questioning, President Donald Trump's myriad financial entanglements. His explanations of the difference suggest that Chaffetz doesn't even understand why Congress has the power to investigate in the first place.

In the month before the 2016 election, Chaffetz referred to a potential Clinton administration as a "target-rich environment," and he vowed to remain relentless following her loss. "The investigation continues," he tweeted on Inauguration Day. As it happened, that was also the day on which his investigatory zeal seemed to flag, at least regarding the current occupant of the White House.

"The Democrats can flail and complain and run around with their heads cut off," he said after meeting with Trump last week, but "the reality is he's exempt" from the federal conflicts of interest statute. That seemed to end the discussion for Chaffetz, disregarding the fact that the president is still covered by the Constitution's Emoluments Clause.

In any event, that was not good enough for some of the congressman's constituents. At a town hall meeting this week attended by more than 1,000 Utahans , Chaffetz heard repeated calls -- often accompanied by "clamorous boos" -- for an investigation into Trump's finances. He steadfastly declined, saying he had not seen any evidence Trump had used the presidency "to ingratiate his family." "You're not going to like this part," he told the frustrated crowd. "The president, under the law, is exempt from the conflict of interest laws."

Chaffetz was referring to the US Criminal Code , which makes it a crime for executive branch employees to participate in official decisions that might affect their personal financial interests. The president, however, is not an employee of the executive branch, and so that particular provision of the criminal law does not apply to him.

In Trump's words , "The law is totally on my side, meaning the president can't have a conflict of interest." That was not true, of course. The president can -- as a factual matter -- have financial interests that conflict or interfere with his obligations to the nation, even though he is not subject to the same penalties as other government officials.

And that is also where Chaffetz gets things completely wrong. The chairman of the House Oversight Committee seems to think his only duty is to investigate potential crimes. If the president can't go to jail, well, there is nothing to see here, and we can all move along. But the actual job of a legislative committee is to investigate the need for legislation, not the need for law enforcement. So the question for Chaffetz is not whether Trump is exempt from the law, but rather, whether the law itself should be changed.

As Republicans are fond of pointing out, our government is one of limited powers, all of which are spelled out in the Constitution. The powers of Congress are enumerated in Article I, which does not say anything about conducting investigations. Nonetheless, the US Supreme Court has consistently held that the power to make laws implies the power to conduct investigations. Thus, Congress can legitimately investigate any question "on which legislation could be had and would be materially aided by the information which the investigation was calculated to elicit."

As the court explained in Watkins v. United States (1957), the power of Congress to conduct investigations is inherent in the legislative process. That power is broad. It encompasses inquiries concerning the administration of existing laws as well as proposed or possibly needed statutes.

In other words, the function of an investigative committee is to act as the eyes and ears of Congress in obtaining facts upon which the full legislature can act, and that includes amending laws in light of changed circumstances.

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

As was evident in Chaffetz's own deep-red district, millions of Americans -- and not only Democrats -- are worried about the effect that Trump's financial empire might have on his conduct in office.

The current conflict of interest laws have turned out to be inadequate to impose any restraints on the President -- including disclosure of the extent of his investments, or the identities of investors, from which countries, who may have leverage over him. But that is a good reason to open an investigation, not to foreclose one.

Congress needs to consider whether to change the law to fit the unprecedented Trump era, and the first step is to determine the nature, scope and details of the President's worldwide holdings.

Chaffetz attended Brigham Young University on a football scholarship, and he still holds several school records for kicking extra points. He was evidently a great placekicker, but on the important questions of Trump's financial conflicts of interest, he has regrettably chosen to punt. As the President himself might say: Sad!

Note: An earlier version of this story incorrectly said the powers of Congress are enumerated in Article II of the Constitution; they are in Article I.

*The power of the presidency looks much grander from the perspective of the campaign trail than it does from the White House. Once a president is in office, he is confronted with the power of the other branches of government, Congress and the courts as well as the multitude of institutions and political actors, from reporters to grass-roots activists, who can cause problems for any administration.

Historically, we see presidents adjust to the realities of governing. This has been a truism in American politics, often to the chagrin of campaign supporters who believe that the president, by adjusting his agenda, is abandoning promises and core principles. But the best presidents often learn that it is only through compromise, pragmatic adjustment and flexibility that one can be successful in our system of separated power.

The question is whether President Donald Trump will make this shift.

There are a number of times when new presidents, who tend to be bold and ambitious, are forced to make adjustments once their term starts. One of the most important reasons has been that elections are not really mandates in the United States (so the losers still hold on to some sources of power).

President John F. Kennedy entered office promising a new era, but much of his domestic agenda remained dormant throughout his term given the power of conservative Southern Democrats in Congress. "The fact is I think the Congress looks more powerful sitting here than it did when I was there in the Congress," Kennedy said in 1962.

Despite all the drama of the 1980 election, President Ronald Reagan still had to contend with a Democratic House throughout his presidency. Every time he tried to move domestic policy to the right, cutting welfare and dismantling programs, he encountered resistant majorities that forced him to curtail his ambition.

JUST WATCHED DOJ files appeal to travel ban suspension Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH DOJ files appeal to travel ban suspension 01:15

President Bill Clinton moved to the center as congressional Republicans regained control of Congress in 1994.

President Barack Obama promised in 2008 to redirect our national security programs fundamentally, but he ended up backing away from closing Guantanamo, escalating our military operations through drone strikes and leaving much of the post-9/11 counterterrorism program in place.

Circumstances also can change dramatically, and presidents have to change with them. Franklin D. Roosevelt campaigned promising to be a fiscal conservative and keep federal budgets low. But the severity of the Great Depression and the need to boost consumer demand gradually led him to loosen some of those ambitious and open up the nation's purse strings so to pump prime the markets.

Richard Nixon promised in 1968 to bring an end to the Vietnam War. His ability to do so was limited. Although he would start to pull American forces out of the conflict, leaving the South Vietnamese to do more of the fighting themselves, he continued a brutal and massive bombing campaign against the North Vietnamese that would lead to a national outcry against his duplicity.

George W. Bush campaigned by famously lashing out against Clinton's proclivity for nation-building and promised to limit US involvement in the world. But then the horrors of 9/11 took place. Bush responded by vastly expanding the national security apparatus and involving US military forces in two major military conflicts.

Presidents also change because they learn on the job. The wisdom of governance comes from having a full sense of the issues facing the nation and a better grasp of intelligence -- both national security and domestic challenges -- where they move away from some of the bluster that was used when campaigning.

Jimmy Carter promised to transform the way that American politics worked but in the end had to work with congressional Democrats who were essential to any legislative victories. George H.W Bush swore that he would never raise taxes in 1988. But when push came to shove and he was dealing with the urgent need to reduce the deficit from the Oval Office, he conceded, angering the right and working with Democrats on a package that raised revenue. Though they were one-term presidents, their respective accomplishments on the Camp David peace accord and deficit reduction are considered impressive.

There are a few signs that Trump might be shifting on some issues . Scratch beneath the surface of the Twitter blizzard and we have seen him back away from Taiwan, send mixed signals on Israeli settlements and offer some indications that it won't be possible to dismantle the Iran nuclear deal.

Still he has a long way to go. Overall, he is sticking to the script from the campaign trail and insisting he won't move away from his core promises. This is what his supporters want. He promised to stop the flow of refugees and that is what he is trying to do. The refusal by an appellate court to reinstate the ban on refugees was a blow to the administration's policy agenda. Trump was checked, and he is being forced to come up with a game plan for responding. But he hasn't backed off his message that refugees pose a threat to US national security, even though the evidence suggests otherwise.

He said he would build a wall on the Mexico border, and he is trying to find money to do just that. When Republicans started warning that people were dependent on the Affordable Care Act, he has insisted that even if it might take longer than he thought, the ACA will go.

Trump has no interest in changing. As one article in Politico concluded, "In interviews, nearly two dozen people who've spent time with Trump in the three weeks since his inauguration said that his mood has careened between surprise and anger as he's faced the predictable realities of governing."

While this might play extremely well with his base of support, it is a model of presidential leadership that is bound to run into trouble.

The courts have already offered Trump the first check and balance. Mass protests have also greeted his decisions and presidency, generating a formidable opposition movement that shows no signs of abating. Congressional Democrats are using what power they have to slow down and delay him. The question is whether and when some Republicans might start to take a stand against Trump, not just with their words but with their votes.

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

Lyndon Johnson always used to talk about the limits of presidential power. From his long time on Capitol Hill, he felt that Congress would get the best of any president at some point. In fact, Johnson was a president who paid a steep price for refusing to change.

Although he campaigned in 1964 promising to be tough against communism, without going as far as his opponent Barry Goldwater, he refused to change course when officials such as Sen. Richard Russell and Vice President Hubert Humphrey warned him in 1965 that the Vietnam War was a mistake. Instead he got the nation deeper and deeper into a quagmire that eventually undid him and had disastrous consequences.

If Trump refuses to adjust and recalibrate on some key issues, there will be a tipping point where he can't overcome the institutional limits of his power, particularly given his weak standing in the national polls. When that point comes remains unclear, but history does suggest that even the most imperial presidency, such as that of Nixon, can ultimately be stopped.

*Frida Ghitis is a world affairs columnist for The Miami Herald and World Politics Review, and a former CNN producer and correspondent. The views expressed in this commentary are her own.

(CNN) New reports from the Washington Post and the New York Times , citing interviews with multiple current and former senior government officials, directly contradict statements by President Trump's national security adviser, Gen. Michael Flynn, and others in the administration, including Vice President Mike Pence, about what exactly transpired during conversations between Flynn and Russian Ambassador Sergei Kislyak as the administrations made their transition.

Flynn and others claimed the phone calls dealt only with arrangements for a call between Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin. Last month Pence went on CBS's Face the Nation and repeated that story.

But in light of the new revelations, senior White House officials have started walking back Pence's assertions, telling CNN that the vice president only knew what Flynn told him and didn't know that Flynn had discussed sanctions and acknowledging that he believes, "it's a problem." Pence, sources said, is trying to "get to the bottom of it."

Perhaps Flynn should have planned his answer better, considering he has a background in intelligence. It turns out the calls were not just monitored, they were recorded and transcribed. Federal officials told the Times that they read the transcript and Flynn did discuss lifting sanctions. Flynn appears to have lied and may have lied to Pence, who repeated it. Now Flynn is backtracking on his version of events, saying he cannot rule out having spoken about sanctions in his talk with the Russian ambassador, according to an aide to Flynn.

As the evidence against Flynn mounts, entangling others officials up to the vice president, it seems likely that the Trump administration will throw him overboard. But sacrificing Flynn will not remove the cloud of suspicion hanging over the Trump administration and Russia.

Even before America's 17 intelligence agencies concluded that Putin had ordered Russian intelligence to launch a campaign to influence the American election and help Trump win; even before we learned about a secret dossier put together by a respected former British intelligence agent claiming (without confirmation) the Russians had compromising information on Trump -- long before that, Trump's statements and his campaigns actions regarding Russia ranged from startling to shocking.

He started with high praise of Putin in 2015, followed by stunning suggestions that he might recognize Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and lift sanctions imposed by the United States and its allies after Russia invaded neighboring Ukraine, annexed Crimea and sent Russian troops to fight alongside separatists in Ukraine's Donbas region.

Then Trump campaign officials scrubbed the Republican platform at the convention, removing criticism of Russia and statements of support for Ukrainian independence that had been uncontroversial before Trump's candidacy.

JUST WATCHED McCain: Putin is a murderer and thug Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH McCain: Putin is a murderer and thug 00:46

Trump is not the first president to want to improve relations with Russia, but he is the first to suggest doing it by adjusting American policy to suit Russian interests. And he is the first to offer effusive praise of an autocratic ruler (whose critics frequently turn up dead ) by smearing his own country.

As the media and the public try to keep up with an incessant barrage of lies, controversies, foreign policy missteps, and ethical violations, the Trump administration may hope that the Russia question will go away. But few issues are more important.

The lingering questions is whether this administration colluded with the Kremlin in its campaign to interfere with the US election, and whether Trump's decisions on Russia are guided by anything other than what he perceives as America's best interests.

Moscow's recent arrests of the Kremlin's own cyber-spies , possibly in connection with the US election, and the death of a top former KGB/FSB official add mystery to the case.

The President could go a long way in lifting suspicions if he released his tax returns, as every president since Richard Nixon has done, but he won't do that. Why? His argument, that IRS audits prevent it, are plainly false . We don't even know if he is being audited

With government officials, even inside the White House, leaking information with extraordinary frequency, and with news organizations bolstering their operations, we are learning a bit more every day. The telephone calls, for example, were discovered as part of a larger US investigation into Russian activities in the US, sources told CNN.

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

Americans can only hope that law enforcement and intelligence agencies follow the trail wherever it may lead. After all, we saw the FBI's involvement in the last election , and we have also seen how willing Trump is to try to intimidate civil servants

Committees in both houses of Congress are launching investigations into Russian interference in the election, but it is unclear how far most Republicans will be willing to dig when it comes to exploring possible coordination between the Trump campaign and the Kremlin.

The question of Trump and Russia is so sensitive, so consequential, that Americans should demand that a select bipartisan panel of Congress look into the issue. Without a credible investigation, doubts about Russia policy will persist as long as Trump is President.

*S.E. Cupp is the author of "Losing Our Religion: The Liberal Media's Attack on Christianity, " co-author of "Why You're Wrong About the Right" and a columnist at the New York Daily News. The opinions expressed in this commentary are her own.

(CNN) In Washington -- Hollywood for ugly people -- fashion doesn't usually get much attention, unless it's for all the wrong reasons. There was that, ahem, dress -- remember, it was blue? Or Sarah Palin's $695 beaded silk bolero jacket right out of "Three Amigos"?

And of course, there was President Obama's infamous tan suit moment. We were all Republicans that day, amiright?

But somehow, in this era of unprecedented partisan divide, Republicans and Democrats are coming together in the name of fashion. That is, they are in rare agreement that Kellyanne Conway should not be hawking Ivanka Trump's clothing from the perch of White House Counselor.

They are right to be offended. It's totally inappropriate, and possibly an ethics violation, to go on Fox News and "give a free commercial," as Conway herself called it, for the President's daughter's clothing line. "Go buy Ivanka's stuff," she said. "It's a wonderful line. I own some of it. Go buy it today, everybody. You can find it online."

This was in response to Nordstrom department stores winding back their relationship with the clothing line in response to slow sales. But Conway's defense was unseemly, unprofessional and, frankly, unacceptable.

Which is presumably why House Oversight Committee Chairman Rep. Jason Chaffetz, a Republican, called it "wrong, wrong, wrong," at a Utah townhall.

To show just how seriously he and his committee are taking the matter, he and Democrat Rep. Elijah Cummings will refer Conway for an ethics investigation, calling her remarks "clearly over the line."

"It should never have happened," he said, "and they better learn this lesson very quick."

Sounds like he means business.

I'll be honest, the episode isn't sitting well with me, but not for the reasons it should.

JUST WATCHED Kellyanne Conway: Go buy Ivanka's stuff Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Kellyanne Conway: Go buy Ivanka's stuff 01:54

Of course, Conway shouldn't hawk Trump family merch on television, even if in a moment of levity, she was trying to be funny. But, it's no excuse not to know -- especially considering Trump's labyrinthine web of business ventures -- that she shouldn't use the White House for someone's profit.

The more bothersome aspect of all this? This is what it takes to get the needle of a Republican's ethical Geiger counter to move?

Bravo to chairman Chaffetz for looking into Conway's couture calamity, but what about all the other stuff?

Back in January, before Trump was sworn in, Chaffetz seemed satisfied that Trump's myriad business ties wouldn't present any conflicts of interest. "I do believe that he has set up a plan where the revenue or the profits that are coming to the hotel will be given directly to the Treasury," he said, referring to Trump's Washington hotel.

He was unconcerned about the Emoluments Clause, which prevents presidents from accepting gifts from foreign governments. "Now the Emoluments Clause, he's going to have to have to look at, and we'll see how that rolls out. The president has a duty and obligation to comply with the law, but again he's exempt from almost all of these things."

He insisted then, and again just this week on CNN, that he was not going to go on a Democrat-directed "fishing expedition" to see if Trump is following the law.

It's no wonder his own constituents are angry. At a Utah townhall, the same one at which he scolded Conway for her actions, Chaffetz was booed and jeered by voters who wanted more investigations of Trump's businesses, yelling "Do your job!"

In a state that voted for Trump over Hillary Clinton a whopping 45.5% to 27.5%, the scene was a jarring one. But maybe it's what Chaffetz needed to see to remember that his job is to "exercise effective oversight over the federal government ... and work proactively to investigate and expose waste, fraud, and abuse," according to the committee website. Doesn't "proactively" actually describe a fishing expedition? Otherwise he's relying solely on fishmongers -- or whistleblowers -- to hand him investigations.

JUST WATCHED Kellyanne Conway's full interview with Tapper Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Kellyanne Conway's full interview with Tapper 25:19

But it goes beyond Chaffetz and his committee. Republicans in Congress, so giddy that there's an R in the White House again, seem willing to overlook a whole host of unsettling White House developments in order to protect Trump from the scrutiny he deserves.

When President Trump questioned the authority of a "so-called" federal judge on Twitter, where were separate powers enthusiasts in the Republican House and Senate to defend his legitimacy? Nowhere.

Are any Republicans concerned that Trump's national security adviser may have violated the Logan Act when he reportedly discussed sanctions with the Russian ambassador to the United States, before Trump was elected?

Will any Republicans say they mind that the President and his spokespeople regularly mislead or lie to the public about matters large and small on national television?

If Obama had called a raid in which a US soldier was killed a "winning mission" and then scolded an actual war hero who questioned it, Republicans would have launched one of three dozen investigations.

JUST WATCHED White House plugs Ivanka Trump's brand Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH White House plugs Ivanka Trump's brand 01:43

In fact, switch Obama for Trump in any one of these scenarios and Republicans would be calling the first few weeks of his presidency a zombie apocalypse. Instead, they seem content to whistle past the pile of corpses, pretending not to notice.

It seems like the outrage over Kellyanne Conway's comments might be a way of pretending to appear fair and responsible, instead of mustering up the courage to object to far more important and disturbing infractions.

I'm not buying it. If Republicans want to preserve any suggestion of ethical credibility, they'll start taking the Trump administration's many troubles more seriously.

Forget the clothes. Focus on the country.

*CNN national security analyst Juliette Kayyem is the author of "Security Mom: An Unclassified Guide to Protecting Our Homeland and Your Home." She is a professor at Harvard's Kennedy School, a former assistant secretary of Homeland Security in the Obama administration and founder of Kayyem Solutions, a security consulting firm. The opinions expressed in this commentary are hers.

(CNN) While President Trump stumbles along with his executive order (now blocked by a federal appeals court) banning immigration from seven countries, an important reality has been lost in the international criticism and legal analysis: not all seven countries named in the ban are alike.

They are not all enemies of the US -- like Iran -- or nations we have been at war with -- like Iraq or Afghanistan. In fact one of them this week provided a clear example of the perilous geopolitical territory the Trump administration wandered into when its ban not only resulted in confusion, but delivered a serious blow to counterterrorism efforts that help keep America safe.

I'm referring here to Yemen.

In a 24-hour period late last month, Yemen was the focus of not one, but two, important efforts by the Trump administration. On a Friday, the ban was imposed against Yemen. A day later, Trump authorized a raid by special forces to capture the leader of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, Qassim al-Rimi, that resulted in the death of a US Navy SEAL, 13 civilians (according to Yemeni officials) including an 8-year-old gir l and the downing of an Osprey aircraft. The Pentagon said 14 al Qaeda fighters were killed in the battle.

JUST WATCHED Military botches Yemen raid video release Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Military botches Yemen raid video release 02:01

For years during the Bush and Obama administrations, Yemen had cooperated with US efforts, which included drones and ground raids, well aware that many areas in its country were being used by terrorists to train and hide. It never required specific approval, which would have delayed US missions and potentially risked their secrecy.

Yemen's public skepticism and the unclear status of what a "reassessment" actually is present a major impediment to our counterterrorism efforts. In nations like Yemen, with major geographic areas that are essentially failed states, the coalition efforts rely on the host country to allow it to come in and fight terror. That is not an easy agreement for a country like Yemen: it has to deal with internal forces that do not view the United States as a force of good.

The careless mission, coupled with the "in your face" naming in the executive order, were unsustainable affronts to Yemen and it responded in kind. Yemen is not a democratic nation and it is a human rights violator. It is not a friend, in the sense of how Americans view Great Britain or France as friends. But it isn't a foe either.

JUST WATCHED Yemen raid planned under Obama, approved by Trump Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Yemen raid planned under Obama, approved by Trump 03:00

This represents the quintessential challenge of the emerging Trump Doctrine. The President views foreign relations in a binary fashion: nations are good or bad. The world is a little more complicated. Mexico isn't just about a wall, for example; it is a major trading partner. Australia isn't just about a refugee dispute; it is a major ally in our war efforts. Yemen isn't just a state that harbors terrorists; it is a partner in a global mission.

In domestic circles, the debate about whether the now-stalled executive order is good or bad for counterterrorism efforts is being litigated in courts and public opinion. But for Yemen, the inclusion was a blow to a historic expectation that the nations -- for better or for worse, in the gray area or not -- would fight together.

President Trump has said that rescinding the executive order would put our nation at risk. That statement is questionable but clearly a political tactic.

The failed al Qaeda mission and Yemen's response will hinder our ability to engage fully in targeted military efforts to protect our nation in the global war on terror. With friends like us, Yemen found it necessary to reset the relationship.

*David M. Smick is chairman and CEO of the macroeconomic advisory firm Johnson Smick International and founder and editor of the International Economy magazine. His new book is " The Great Equalizer: How Main Street Capitalism Can Create an Economy for Everyone ." The opinions expressed in this commentary are his.

(CNN) Facing fierce criticism from the right on fiscal policy, President Donald Trump has developed a new sense of urgency. In an interview last weekend with Fox's Bill O'Reilly, when asked if Americans should expect a tax cut this year, instead of saying something along the lines of "yes, absolutely," Trump offered the more restrained, "I think so ... before the end of the year. I would like to say yes."

Such an expression of caution is unusual for the 45th President. Yet Thursday, Trump suddenly shifted gears, promising to announce a "phenomenal" tax reform proposal in an amazingly short two to three weeks.

Reforming the tax code is likely to be far more politically complicated than the Trump officials, most of whom are new to Washington, think. As a congressional staff aide and later an outside adviser, I worked on both the 1981 and 1986 tax reform packages.

The process of seeking a consensus was difficult and time-consuming. In the case of the 1986 tax reform, it took years to resolve some serious differences. Trump will face a similar challenge in a much more compressed time period. Announcements are easy to make. Actually enacting tax reform is a lot more difficult.

The details of the President's plan have yet to be announced, but a rough outline exists. The outline largely reflects the House Republican tax reform plan. And the answer to two questions will likely determine the success of the overall effort:

First, will the Senate (and perhaps even some House Republicans) kill the House's proposal for a border adjustment tax (which produces an estimated $1.4 trillion in new revenue over 10 years, the amount roughly needed for Trump's infrastructure spending and military modernization)?

The new proposed border-adjusted tax system would place a 20% tax on imports while eliminating the corporate income tax. It is being heavily attacked by US importers, Walmart Koch Industries and foreign governments. Proponents argue that US companies, by not having to pay taxes on exports, would for the first time face a level playing field in tax policy relative to their global competition.

Second, will the Senate accept the House's use of "dynamic scoring" in determining the budget implications of tax reform? Dynamic scoring assumes tax incentives have some effect in creating greater tax revenue. Critics charge that dynamic scoring is "funny math." Proponents use the analogy of a small business. "If you expand your sales budget by $100,000, you wouldn't expect sales revenues to stay the same," they argue.

Here's why these questions are relevant: If dynamic scoring is accepted, tax reform will include the immediate expensing for tax purposes of all capital investment, a huge stimulus for business expansion. As one congressional leader told me, "If there is no dynamic scoring, expensing is out," because the static revenue loss (on paper) as a result of the stimulus would not comply with the 10-year budget restrictions previously set by Congress.

By the same token, if there is no border adjustment tax, the Trump fiscal stimulus is likely to be significantly smaller than originally envisioned. US tax policy will change, but there may be nothing "phenomenal" about the final result.

Making tax policymaking entails a series of trade-offs. If the choice is between a border adjustment tax versus Trump's reckless call for 35% or higher tariffs aimed at US trade competitors, the choice is clear.

Tariffs would risk a global trade war and almost certain worldwide recession. The border adjustment alternative would likely be consistent with the rules of the World Trade Organization and would not lead necessarily to trade retaliation. The US corporate tax system would not be dissimilar to the value-added tax systems used elsewhere in the world to the disadvantage of American companies.

But here's the ultimate question: Is the President's call for tariffs the opening bid in an elaborate effort to strike a deal on a border adjustment tax he wanted all along?

In other words, by threatening the world with tariffs, does the border adjustment tax (and its $1.4 trillion in new revenue) become the reasonable and safe alternative? Or is the new President not that clever? When all is said and done, one thing is certain about tax policy: All policy changes produce unintended economic and political consequences. That's why enacting a border adjustment tax is hardly a sure thing.

Finally, there is the issue of Trump's promise of individual tax rate reduction. Some of the administration's economic advisers have suggested the personal tax reductions be separated from the corporate tax stimulus, with the personal tax code to be addressed at a later time.

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

Here's the problem: More than 80% of businesses in the United States use so-called "pass-throughs" to pay their taxes -- proprietorships, partnerships, Subchapter S organizations that all pay their taxes using the personal income tax schedules. Unless these firms are part of the corporate tax reform plan, small businesses and startups, which are already at a disadvantage relative to large corporations because of the complexity of the tax code, will fall further behind.

The upshot is that many Democrats in Congress are open to supporting a plan that reforms the inefficient corporate tax system. Few Democrats will support a plan for individual tax rate reduction. Here's the problem: Can a President who won by promising support for the Rust Belt's "forgotten man" really agree to a plan that delays tax rate cuts for the middle class and pushes fiscal stimulus for the corporate class?

*Story highlights Judge John Sirica, a Republican, ordered tapes incriminating Nixon in Watergate be turned over to prosecutors

Timothy Naftali: If travel ban case gets to high court, Trump shouldn't imagine justices will put politics above judiciary's reputation

Timothy Naftali teaches history and public policy at New York University. He's the former director of the Richard Nixon Presidential Library and Museum. The views expressed in this commentary are solely his.

(CNN) In late 1973, Judge John Sirica, chief judge of the US District Court for the District of Columbia, and a young clerk jointly listened to a tape of a White House conversation, which would later become infamous as the "Cancer on the Presidency" meeting between Richard Nixon and his counsel John W. Dean.

Tim Naftali

Sirica had been appointed by Dwight D. Eisenhower, and both he and his clerk were Republican. Nevertheless, when Sirica and the clerk, D. Todd Christofferson, heard Nixon telling Dean on the March 21, 1973, tape that money could be found to pay for the silence of the Watergate burglars, party didn't matter. "(Y)ou could get a million dollars," Nixon said. "And you could get it in cash. I know where it could be gotten."

"We felt, both of us, like we had been hit in the gut," Christofferson, now a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, later recalled for the Nixon Library, "and it was hard to breathe. It was such a disillusioning experience because both of us had voted for Nixon twice ... and hoped against hope as things went on that he really wasn't a party to any of this, that it had been a conspiracy maybe involving some of his chief aides, but not him. But this for us, for the judge and myself, laid it to rest. There was no doubt after that."

Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career President Richard Nixon was in the White House from 1969 to 1974, when he became the first president to resign from office. He died at 81 in 1994. Here's a look at his life and legacy: Hide Caption 1 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Nixon was born in California on January 9, 1913. He is pictured at age 4. Hide Caption 2 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career As a teenager, Nixon poses for a portrait with a violin in 1927. Hide Caption 3 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Nixon, No. 12, and his football teammates at Whittier College pose for a picture in the 1930s. After graduating from Whittier, he attended law school at Duke University. Hide Caption 4 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career During World War II, Nixon served as a lieutenant commander in the Navy. Hide Caption 5 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Nixon, far right, stands next to John F. Kennedy and other freshmen members of Congress in 1947. Hide Caption 6 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Republican presidential nominee Dwight D. Eisenhower and his running mate, Richard Nixon, with their wives at the Republican National Convention in Chicago on July 12, 1952. The Eisenhower-Nixon ticket won the election that year. Hide Caption 7 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Vice President Nixon, right, and Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev, center, share a laugh during Nixon's visit to the Soviet Union in 1959. The two leaders engaged in an informal debate about the merits of capitalism versus communism at the opening of the American National Exhibition in Moscow. Hide Caption 8 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Nixon poses for a portrait with his wife, Pat, and their daughters, Tricia and Julie, circa 1958. Hide Caption 9 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Vice President Nixon and Sen. John F. Kennedy take part in a televised debate during their 1960 presidential campaign. Kennedy won the election that year. Hide Caption 10 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Republican presidential candidate Nixon campaigns in New York in 1960. Hide Caption 11 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Nixon addresses supporters after winning his party's nomination again in 1968. He went on to defeat the Democratic nominee, incumbent Vice President Hubert Humphrey. Hide Caption 12 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career First lady Pat Nixon, center, watches as her husband is sworn in as the 37th president of the United States by Supreme Court Chief Justice Earl Warren on January 20, 1969. Hide Caption 13 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Apollo 11 astronauts Neil Armstrong, Michael Collins and Buzz Aldrin laugh with President Nixon aboard the USS Hornet on July 24, 1969. The president was on hand to greet the astronauts after their splashdown in the Pacific. Hide Caption 14 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career In 1970, Nixon announces the invasion of Cambodia to the American public. Hide Caption 15 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai toasts with Nixon during his trip to China in February 1972. Hide Caption 16 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career President Nixon, left, briefs the Congressional leadership in 1973 before his televised announcement of the ceasefire in the Vietnam War. From left are Senate Minority Leader Hugh Scott, House Majority Leader Tip O'Neill, Speaker of the House Carl Albert, Senate Majority Leader Mike Mansfield, House Minority Leader Gerald Ford, Vice President Spiro Agnew and Secretary of State Henry Kissinger. Hide Caption 17 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career In 1972, Nixon ran a successful re-election campaign. Gerald Ford, right, became his vice president when Spiro Agnew resigned in 1973. Hide Caption 18 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Surrounded by family members, Nixon delivers his resignation speech on August 9, 1974. He stepped down after the Watergate scandal, which stemmed from a break-in at the Democratic National Committee offices during the 1972 campaign. Hide Caption 19 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Nixon leaves the White House after his resignation over the Watergate scandal in 1974. Hide Caption 20 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Former President Nixon is wired for a microphone on April 9, 1988, before the taping of the NBC television show "Meet the Press." It was his first appearance on the show since 1968. Hide Caption 21 of 22 Photos: Richard Nixon's life and career Days after suffering a stroke, Nixon died in New York on April 22, 1994. A military honor guard carries Nixon's casket at the Stewart Air Force Base before the flight back to his hometown of Yorba Linda, California. His body was put on the same Boeing 707 that flew him home after his resignation. Hide Caption 22 of 22

Thursday's unanimous decision by the 9th US Circuit Court of Appeals is a matter of the constitutionality of a policy and not of a president's involvement in a criminal conspiracy. Nevertheless, President Donald Trump's public comments, especially his tweets, suggest a deep skepticism that the American judiciary can ever be apolitical when it disagrees with him.

Read More

*Nic Robertson is CNN's International Diplomatic Editor. The opinions expressed in this article are his.

(CNN) This week, Queen Elizabeth II quietly slipped past another extraordinary milestone of her reign. Without fanfare, she celebrated her Sapphire Jubilee : 65 years on the throne.

Her measured hand has helped guide post-war Britain through mesmerizing change -- both social and technological -- on a scale not witnessed by her predecessors.

In London's Queen Square, a memorial urn celebrating her Silver jubilee 40 years ago bears the inscription: "In times where nothing stood, But worsened or grew strange, There was one constant good, She did not change."

It seems paradoxical that this paragon of thoughtful, quiet progress should be at the top of President Donald Trump's wish list of overseas visits.

Since taking office, the President has begun to unpick the fabric of the modern world. Britain built its empire over centuries, America over decades. Trump may pull it down in a matter of months.

Putative enemies are testing Trump's new direction. Iran's rhetoric and reaction to being put "on notice" by the White House ratchets up by the day. China's cutters are calculating US resolve around contested islands in the East China Sea.

Even allies are acting out. Israel has abandoned its Obama-era restraint over settlements to build more homes. In the UK, the Speaker of the Commons has spoken out against Trump's values and questioned how appropriate it would be to welcome the American President on a state visit.

As Trump puts "America First" and signals that a shift from the center of the global stage draws near, others are already stepping up to take the place of the US.

In a matter of days, Trump has done what no other US president has been able to do in decades: unite Europe, convincing nations recently at each other's throats that they must now lead the world.

It's not what he wanted -- a band of countries with global clout touting free trade and liberal values. But it indicates that Europe is in transition.

No one but old school European diplomats can really believe that the Union will survive in its current form. As Malta's Prime Minister Joseph Muscat says, views about what the EU means vary from nation to nation (he envisions a multi-tier bloc of nations in the future).

Though not as he may have intended, Trump is already leaving his mark on the wider world. He is souring relations that may never recover under his leadership, yet he seems reluctant to tackle his most scrutinized overseas relationship: the one he intends with the president of Russia, Vladimir Putin.

That it is on his mind this week is clear. Just minutes past 7 a.m. on the East Coast of America one morning, his first tweet of the day denied any connection to the Russian leader: "I don't know Putin, have no deals in Russia."

With chaos slip-streaming Trump's other fast-moving global relationships, his courtship of Putin is looking increasingly protracted -- and the Kremlin seems to be playing along.

So far Putin is deftly dancing around otherwise offensive comments, such as during Trump's interview with Fox's Bill O'Reilly , accepting the anchor's claim that Putin is a killer. Putin's spokesman described it as "an unfortunate incident for Fox," overlooking Trump's implicit endorsement of the Russian leader's allegedly deadly track record.

Even while Trump's seniors label Moscow dangerous and double down on Ukraine sanctions, raising the bar for compliance above the EU threshold of the Minsk agreement to handing back Crimea, Russia holds its nerve.

Trump may be Moscow's best shot in decades of retooling world order to fit the Kremlin's desires, and no amount of new administration needling can change that.

Time is certainly on Putin's side. As his aid quipped to O'Reilly, even if Trump gets another term, Putin will still be in power: " We'll put a note in the calendar for 2023 and get back to him on this issue ."

However you read it, from London to Beijing and Tehran, from Jerusalem to Moscow, Trump's inward-looking America is shaking America's allies, emboldening its enemies and making America weaker.

China already stands to be the biggest winner in the wake of the TPP's demise, and as Trump abruptly ended a phone call with Australia's Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull -- a key military ally in the Pacific region -- Chinese officials must have been rubbing their hands with glee.

So while Trump effuses great respect and admiration for Her Majesty, he has to date done little to emulate the Queen's careful, nurturing, pragmatic style.

Trump's mother, whom he says he gets his religion from, was a big fan of the Queen: she loved the pomp and ceremony. She was from a Scottish island so remote from London that a trip to New York was more common for her generation than going to Britain's capital. But despite London feeling a world away, she would watch every time the Queen came on TV, according to the President.

JUST WATCHED A royal welcome: Go inside Buckingham Palace Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH A royal welcome: Go inside Buckingham Palace 01:43

So what is it that drives Trump's ambition to meet Britain's longest-serving monarch? Is it purely to be a part of the pomp and ceremony? Perhaps to live out his mother's lasting wish: an audience with the Queen? Maybe the President simply wants a photograph for the Oval Office? Or he may simply see being pictured with a figure as popular as Her Majesty a helpful hand in winning back lost support.

Britain's Monarch has known her own pain of getting it wrong with her subjects. Twenty years ago this summer, Princess Diana died in a tragic car accident, trailed by paparazzi in a gloomy Paris tunnel.

The Queen waited for so long in her Scottish home, far from the emotional outpourings of affection for her grandchildren's mother hundreds of miles away in London, that when she spoke, she seemed remote from the pain that afflicted the British people.

It was a stumble in the otherwise well choreographed waltz that embraces "the people" with "the monarchy," but she has since recovered their warmth.

Nearly 2 million of her loyal subjects have signed a petition in order to spare their Queen the embarrassment of meeting a man they feel undeserving of the honor of a state visit.

If Trump is, as they fear, the antithesis of all she holds vital in power -- the careful execution of duty -- then his mission to meet her can only be one of self-aggrandizement.

It would be a very farsighted optimist, sporting the strongest of rose-tinted shades, who could believe that Trump might learn something.

But if we hold belief in suspension for a moment, whom better to crack through his abrasive bluster than the woman his mother loved, a woman who has had the measure of his hard-nosed type many times before?

If she can't, then what hope for other world leaders? Trump's track record leaves little room for optimism. He regards tactful friendliness from an ally as a bull does a matador in a red cape.

*Frida Ghitis is a world affairs columnist for The Miami Herald and World Politics Review, and a former CNN producer and correspondent. The views expressed in this commentary are her own.

(CNN) When President Trump equated the United States with the regime of Russian President Vladimir Putin, he took one more step in placing America at the center of a global war between democracy and authoritarianism.

Trump was defending the Russian President after Fox's Bill O'Reilly called Putin a " killer ." His response, "You think our country is so innocent," reveals Trump's dismissive attitude toward the most fundamental democratic norms that America has aspired to embody. Clearly, the United States has made many grave mistakes throughout history, but the country's guiding principles have remained unchanged: the fierce defense of individual liberties and an unshakeable commitment to democratic ideals.

In Russia, by contrast, Putin has decimated the opposition, imprisoned critics and taken control of all branches of government. The free press is a faint shadow of its former self, and Putin's critics, including journalists , continue to turn up dead under suspicious circumstances. One of Putin's most vocal critics, Vladimir Kara-Murza, remains in a Moscow hospital in "grave condition" after suffering a "full organ failure" that, as his lawyer told CNN , doctors agree is the result of a "toxic substance."

Despite Trump's comments and recent executive actions, Trump should expect push-back from a country committed to liberal democratic principles. This division between the President and the American people makes the United States the latest battleground in a worldwide clash of ideologies.

When the wave of populist authoritarianism started, few would have expected the United States, the principal beacon of modern democracy for over 200 years, to fall under the spell of nativist politics. But fall it did.

The many Americans who remain skeptical of Trump and now find themselves protesting on a weekly basis can take comfort in knowing they are not alone.

On Sunday, while the American public was rapt in the Super Bowl, an astonishing sight came into focus in Romania. Hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets to protest a government push to decriminalize corruption. The remarkable part was that protesters had already won.

Demonstrations had begun six days earlier, after the government tried to quietly pass a decree that would have cleared the records and freed from prison people convicted of corruption for amounts less than $47,000. The government agreed to rescind the order. But the demonstrations only grew, with protesters saying they came out to protect their democracy.

Romanians knew they had to fight for democracy because of their recent communist past and the onslaught in neighboring countries against liberal democracy, which requires separation of powers, a free judiciary, free and fair elections and, yes, freedom to protest.

Sadly, now, in the aftermath of the global financial crisis and the surge of refugee arrivals, demagogic politicians have leveraged popular discontent, lashing out against foreigners, vowing to put their country's "true" residents first, and gradually dismantling the foundations of liberal democracy.

JUST WATCHED Aisha Tyler: We've got to keep fighting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Aisha Tyler: We've got to keep fighting 03:49

Romanians seem to have won round one. But the forces defending democracy elsewhere, including in neighboring Hungary, have been losing. Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban openly declared he's building an " illiberal state ," and is making strides in his quest to imitate regimes run by the likes of Putin. Democratic freedoms have suffered sharp reverses in recent years. Turkey is slipping into dictatorship, Venezuela remains mired in autocracy, as do countries in every continent. But what's ahead for the United States?

Some veterans of the battle are pessimistic. When millions of mostly women took to the streets the day after Trump's inauguration, Julia Ioffe, whose family fled Russia, threw cold water on their jubilant movement, tweeting , "The happy, feisty crowds, the clever signs - it all feels like the protests in Moscow in 2011. That went nowhere."

It's true that protests have not achieved much against other authoritarian regimes. In Venezuela, the Chavista regime came to power in 1999, and despite every effort from a determined opposition, it remains in power. In Turkey, mass demonstrations, and even what seemed like electoral victories, have failed to stop Recep Tayyip Erdogan's march to de facto dictator. In Russia, Putin is all but unchallenged, with a quiescent legislature and near-complete control of the news Russians consume.

But the story is likely to have a different outcome in the United States. Yascha Mounk, a Harvard expert in right-wing populism, observed that Trump is turning out to be "more authoritarian than I feared," though the opposition is also proving "more courageous than I expected."

America has deeper democratic roots than any of the countries whose liberal democracies has been toppled. The national religion is freedom from tyranny.

The day after Trump took office, Americans put on what may have been the largest national demonstration in the country's history. A week later, when Trump issued his travel ban for seven Muslim-majority countries, spontaneous demonstrations materialized at major airports across the country. Lawyers filed legal briefs on the spot.

While the Republican-controlled Congress has proven mostly silent in countering Trump's attacks on the independent media and the judiciary, the press appears determined to do its job and judges seem unintimidated by White House bullying. Even members of the executive branch are speaking out.

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

Many Americans support Trump, but there are signs that his sharp break with democratic traditions, his attacks on judges, his fulminations against the media and against critics of all stripes -- from comedians to restaurant reviewers -- are producing a backlash.

History is being written by two opposing forces -- those fighting for and those fighting against liberal democracy. President Trump's likening of America to Putin's Russia puts him on the illiberal side. But the American people have spent hundreds of years building a strong democratic system, and they are prepared to fight to defend it.

*Peter Bergen is CNN's national security analyst, a vice president at New America and a professor of practice at Arizona State University. He is the author of " United States of Jihad: Investigating America's Homegrown Terrorists ."

(CNN) First, there was the " Bowling Green massacre " that wasn't.

Now comes President Donald Trump's claim Monday at the key US military base overseeing the war on ISIS -- US Central Command in Tampa, Florida -- that the media aren't reporting terrorism for "reasons" the President didn't elaborate upon.

Trump told the CENTCOM audience, "You've seen what happened in Paris and Nice. All over Europe, it's happening. It's gotten to a point where it's not even being reported. And in many cases, the very, very dishonest press doesn't want to report it. They have their reasons, and you understand that."

To "prove" that the media aren't covering terrorism adequately the Trump White House, which is fighting in court to reinstate a refugee ban citing the terrorist threat, on Monday night released a list of 78 "major" terrorist attacks since September 2014, claiming, "Most have not received the media attention they deserved."

This is one of the biggest baloney sandwiches this White House has foisted on the public since ... well ... the "Bowling Green massacre," but it's a much bigger and harder-to swallow helping of baloney because it is the President who is forcing it down our throats rather than one of his aides.

Taking the White House timeline of terrorist attacks, I ran it through the Nexis database, which is an authoritative resource for tracking media hits of all types, including in newspapers, magazines, wire service reports, TV news shows and the like.

The results show that terrorist attacks over the past couple of years are, in fact, some of the most well-reported stories of our times. The total number of media hits for the 78 terrorist attacks that the White House released Monday is 80,878, or about an average of slightly more than 1,000 mentions per incident.

And those numbers clearly understate how much coverage the media have given these incidents because a Nexis search only will display a maximum of 3,000 mentions for any given search.

There are 16 terrorist attacks on the White House list of purportedly under-covered attacks that each elicited more than 3,000 media mentions.

The following are a representative sample:

 In Ottawa in October 2014 Michael Zehaf-Bibeau killed a Canadian soldier.

 Two months later in Sydney, Man Haron Monis killed two Australians.

 In March 2015, 21 tourists were killed at the Bardo Museum in Tunis, Tunisia.

 Two months later in Garland, Texas, two ISIS-inspired militants attacked a Prophet Mohammed cartoon contest. Luckily no one was killed except the terrorists.

 In Tunisia, also in 2015, 38 were killed at a beach popular with Westerners.

 In October 2015, 224 were killed in Sinai, Egypt, when ISIS brought down a Russian passenger jet with a bomb.

The terror attacks in Paris and Nice, France, that Trump cited in his CENTCOM speech also received more than 3,000 media mentions.

The terrorist attacks that didn't get as much coverage were -- surprise --- the ones where there were no deaths or that took place in countries such as Saudi Arabia or Bangladesh where there is little independent media reporting.

In three cases, there were no articles listed in the publications included in the Nexis database, and in each of those cases there were no casualties.

The media, including CNN, have exhaustively covered terrorism around the globe since the 9/11 attacks made the issue a central national security concern.

Indeed, the wall-to-wall media coverage of the ISIS attacks in Paris in November 2015 in which 129 were killed and the ISIS-inspired attack in San Bernardino, California, a month later in which 14 were killed was instrumental in boosting Trump in the polls, according to the polling analysis site FiveThirtyEight

Many Americans felt threatened by the ISIS-directed and ISIS-inspired attacks. As the presidential campaign was in full swing at the beginning of 2016, just over half of Americans said they were very or somewhat worried that they, or a member of their family, would be victims of a terrorist attack. This was the largest number to feel that way since just after the 9/11 attacks.

And how did so many Americans learn about the terrorist attacks they were so scared of? Here's a clue: It wasn't through telepathy.

Below is the official White House timeline of terrorist attacks since September 2014 with my annotations in bold about the media coverage they each received. (There are a number of incorrectly spelled words I have left as they were in the original.)

TIMELINE: September, 2014 - December, 2016

NUMBER OF ATTACKS: 78

MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA

September, 2014

TARGET: Two police officers wounded in knife attack

ATTACKER: Abdul Numan Haider

406 stories

TIZI OUZOU, ALGERIA

September, 2014

TARGET: One French citizen beheaded

ATTACKER: Jund al-Khilafah in Algeria

140 stories

QUEBEC, CANADA

October, 2014

TARGET: One soldier killed and one wounded in vehicle attack

ATTACKER: Martin Couture-Rouleau

1,509 stories

OTTAWA, CANADA

October, 2014

TARGET: One soldier killed at war memorial; two wounded in shootings at Parliament building

ATTACKER: Michael Zehaf-Bibeau

More than 3,000 stories

NEW YORK CITY, NY, USA

October, 2014

TARGET: Two police officers wounded in knife attack

ATTACKER: US person

477 stories

RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA

November, 2014

TARGET: One Danish citizen wounded in shooting

ATTACKERS: Three Saudi Arabia-based ISIL members

10 stories

ABU DHABI, UAE

DATE: December 2014

TARGET: One American killed in knife attack

ATTACKER: Dalal al-Hashimi

24 stories

SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA

December, 2014

TARGET: Two Australians killed in hostage taking and shooting

ATTACKER: Man Haron Monis

More than 3,000 stories

TOURS, FRANCE

December, 2014

TARGET: Three police officers wounded in knife attack

ATTACKER: Bertrand Nzohabonayo

91 stories

PARIS, FRANCE

January, 2015

TARGET: One police officer and four hostages killed in shooting at a kosher supermarket

ATTACKER: Amedy Coulibaly

More than 3,000 stories

TRIPOLI, LIBYA

January, 2015

TARGET: Ten killed, including one US citizen, and five wounded in bombing and shooting at a hotel frequented by westerners

ATTACKERS: As many as five ISIL-Libya members

837 stories

RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA

January, 2015

TARGET: Two US citizens wounded in shooting

ATTACKER: Saudi Arabia-based ISIL supporter

5 stories

NICE, FRANCE

February, 2015

TARGET: Two French soldiers wounded in knife attack outside a Jewish community center

ATTACKER: Moussa Coulibaly

268 stories

COPENHAGEN, DENMARK

February, 2015

TARGET: One civilian killed in shooting at a free-speech rally and one security guard killed outside the city's main synagogue

ATTACKER: Omar Abdel Hamid el-Hussein

535 stories

TUNIS, TUNISIA

March, 2015

TARGET: 21 tourists killed, including 16 westerners, and 55 wounded in shooting at the Bardo Museum

ATTACKERS: Two ISIL-aligned extremists

More than 3,000 stories

KARACHI, PAKISTAN

April, 2015

TARGET: One US citizen wounded in knife attack

ATTACKERS: Pakistan-based ISIL supporters

375 stories

PARIS, FRANCE

April, 2015

TARGET: Catholic churches targeted; one civilian killed in shooting, possibly during an attempted carjacking

ATTACKER: Sid Ahmed Ghlam

612 stories

ZVORNIK, BOSNIA

April, 2015

TARGET: One police officer killed and two wounded in shooting

ATTACKER: Nerdin Ibric

61 stories

GARLAND, TX, USA

May, 2015

TARGET: One security guard wounded in shooting at the Prophet Muhammad cartoon event

ATTACKERS: Two US persons

More than 3,000 stories

BOSTON, MA, USA

June, 2015

TARGET: No casualties; one police officer attacked with knife

ATTACKER: US person

627 stories

EL GORA (AL JURAH), EGYPT

June, 2015

TARGET: No casualties; camp used by Multinational Force and Observers (MFO) troops attacked in shooting and bombing attack

ATTACKERS: Unknown number of ISIL-Sinai members

0 stories

LUXOR, EGYPT

June, 2015

TARGET: One police officer killed by suicide bomb near the Temple of Karnak

ATTACKER: Unidentified

101 Stories

SOUSSE, TUNISIA

June, 2015

TARGET: 38 killed and 39 wounded in shooting at a beach frequented by westerners

ATTACKERS: Seifeddine Rezgui and another unidentified attacker

More than 3,000 stories

LYON, FRANCE

June, 2015

TARGET: One civilian killed in beheading and explosion at a chemical plant

ATTACKER: Yasin Salhi

188 stories

CAIRO, EGYPT

July, 2015

TARGET: One killed and nine wounded in VBIED attack at Italian Consulate

ATTACKER: Unidentified ISIL operatives

1,085 stories

CAIRO, EGYPT

July, 2015

TARGET: One Croatian national kidnapped; beheaded on August 12 at an unknown location

ATTACKER: Unidentified ISIL-Sinai operative

466 stories

PARIS, FRANCE

August, 2015

TARGET: Two civilians and one US soldier wounded with firearms and knife on a passenger train

ATTACKER: Ayoub el-Khazzani

2,484 stories

EL GORA, EGYPT

September, 2015

TARGET: Four US and two MFO troops wounded in IED attack

ATTACKER: Unidentified

5 stories

DHAKA, BANGLADESH

September, 2015

TARGET: One Italian civilian killed in shooting

ATTACKER: Unidentified

788 stories

COPENHAGEN, DENMARK

September, 2015

TARGET: One police officer wounded in knife attack

ATTAKER: Palestinian national

130 stories

EL GORA, EGYPT

October, 2015

TARGET: No casualties; airfield used by MFO attacked with rockets

ATTAKER: Unidentified ISIL-Sinai operatives

0 stories

PARRAMATTA, AUSTRALIA

October, 2015

TARGET: One police officer killed in shooting

ATTAKER: Farhad Jabar

1,826 stories

RANGPUR, BANGLADESH

October, 2015

TARGET: One Japanese civilian killed in shooting

ATTAKER: Unidentified

471 stories

HASANAH, EGYPT

October, 2015

TARGET: 224 killed in downing of a Russian airliner

ATTAKER: Unidentified ISIL-Sinai operatives

More than 3,000 stories

MERCED, CA, US

November, 2015

TARGET: Four wounded in knife attack on a college campus

ATTAKER: US person

163 stories

PARIS, FRANCE

November, 2015

TARGET: At least 129 killed and approximately 400 wounded in series of shootings and IED attacks

ATTAKERS: Brahim Abdelslam, Saleh Abdeslam, Ismail Mostefai, Bilal Hadfi, Samy Amimour, Chakib Ahrouh, Foued Mohamed Aggad, and Abdelhamid Abaaoud

More than 3.000 stories

DINAJPUR, BANGLADESH

November, 2015

TARGET: One Italian citizen wounded in shooting

ATTAKER: Unidentified

203 stories

RAJLOVAC, BOSNIA

December, 2015

TARGET: Two Bosnian soldiers killed in shooting

ATTAKER: Enes Omeragic

42 stories

SAN BERNADINO, CA

December, 2015

TARGET: 14 killed and 21 wounded in coordinated firearms attack

ATTAKERS: Two US persons

More than 3,000 stories

LONDON, ENGLAND, UK

December, 2015

TARGET: Three wounded in knife attack at an underground rail station

ATTAKER: Muhyadin Mire

44 stories

DERBENT, RUSSIA

December, 2015

TARGET: One killed and 11 wounded in shooting at UN World Heritage site

ATTAKER: Unidentified ISIL-Caucasus operative

286 stories

CAIRO, EGYPT

January, 2016

TARGET: Two wounded in drive-by shooting outside a hotel frequented by tourists

ATTAKERS: Unidentified ISIL operatives

5 stories

PARIS, FRANCE

January, 2016

TARGET: No casualties; attacker killed after attempted knife attack on Paris police station

ATTAKER: Tarek Belgacem

97 stories

PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA

January, 2016

TARGET: One police officer wounded in shooting

ATTAKER: US person

321 stories

HURGHADA, EGYPT

January, 2016

TARGET: One German and one Danish national wounded in knife attack at a tourist resort

ATTAKER: Unidentified

5 stories

MARSEILLES, FRANCE

January, 2016

TARGET: One Jewish teacher wounded in machete attack

ATTAKER: 15 year-old Ethnic Kurd from Turkey

184 stories

ISTANBUL, TURKEY

January, 2016

TARGET: 12 German tourists killed and 15 wounded in suicide bombing

ATTAKER: Nabil Fadli

More than 3,000 stories

JAKARTA, INDONESIA

January, 2016

TARGET: Four civilians killed and more than 20 wounded in coordinated bombing and firearms attacks near a police station and a Starbucks

ATTAKERS: Dian Joni Kurnaiadi, Muhammad Ali, Arif Sunakim, and Ahmad Muhazan bin Saron

2,530 stories

COLUMBUS, OH, US

February, 2016

TARGET: Four civilians wounded in machete attack at a restaurant

ATTAKER: US person

108 stories

HANOVER, GERMANY

February, 2016

TARGET: One police officer wounded in knife attack

ATTAKER: Safia Schmitter

60 stories

ISTANBUL, TURKEY

March, 2016

TARGET: Four killed and 36 wounded in suicide bombing in the tourist district

ATTAKER: Mehmet Ozturk

306 stories

BRUSSELS, BELGIUM

March, 2016

TARGET: At least 31 killed and 270 wounded in coordinated bombings at Zaventem Airport and on a subway train

ATTAKERS: Khalid el-Bakraoui, Ibrahim el-Bakraoui, Najim Laachraoui, Mohammed Abrini, and Osama Krayem

More than 3,000 stories

ESSEN, GERMANY

April, 2016

TARGET: Three wounded in bombing at Sikh temple

ATTAKERS: Three identified minors

197 stories

ORLANDO, FL, US

June, 2016

TARGET: 49 killed and 53 wounded in shooting at a nightclub

ATTAKER: US person

More than 3,000 stories

MAGNANVILLE, FRANCE

June, 2016

TARGET: One police officer and one civilian killed in knife attack

ATTAKER: Larossi Abballa

1,124 stories

KABUL, AFGHANISTAN

June, 2016

TARGET: 14 killed in suicide attack on a bus carrying Canadian Embassy guards

ATTAKER: ISIL-Khorasan operative

1,404 stories

ISTANBUL, TURKEY

June, 2016

TARGET: 45 killed and approximately 240 wounded at Ataturk International Airport

ATTACKERS: Rakhim Bulgarov, Vadim Osmanov, and an unidentified ISIL operative

More than 3,000 stories

DHAKA, BANGLADESH

July, 2016

TARGET: 22 killed, including one American and 50 wounded after hours-long siege using machetes and firearms at holy Artisan Bakery

ATTACKERS: Nibras Islam, Rohan Imtiaz, Meer Saameh Mubasheer, Khairul Islam Paye, and Shafiqul Islam Uzzal

More than 3,000 stories

NICE, FRANCE

July, 2016

TARGET: 84 civilians killed and 308 wounded by an individual who drove a truck into a crowd

ATTACKER: Mohamed Bouhlel

More than 3,000 stories

WURZBURG, GERMANY

July, 2016

TARGET: Four civilians wounded in axe attack on a train

ATTACKER: Riaz Khan Ahmadzai

283 stories

ANSBACH, GERMANY

July, 2016

TARGET: At least 15 wounded in suicide bombing at a music festival

ATTACKER: Mohammad Daleel

300 stories

NORMANDY, FRANCE

July, 2016

TARGET: One priest killed in knife attack

ATTACKERS: Adel Kermiche and Abdel Malik Nabil Petitjean

1,637 stories

CHALEROI, BELGIUM

August, 2016

TARGET: Two police officers wounded in machete attack

ATTACKER: Khaled Babouri

10 stories

QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA

August, 2016

TARGET: Two killed and one wounded in knife attack at a hostel frequented by Westerners

ATTACKER: Smail Ayad

852 stories

COPENHAGEN, DENMAKR

September, 2016

TARGET: Two police officers and a civilian wounded in shooting

ATTACKER: Mesa Hodzic

43 stories

PARIS, FRANCE

September, 2016

TARGET: One police officer wounded in raid after VBIED failed to detonate at Notre Dame Cathedral

ATTACKERS: Sarah Hervouet, Ines Madani, and Amel Sakaou

21 stories

SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA

September, 2016

TARGET: One civilian wounded in knife attack

ATTACKER: Ihsas Khan

269 stories

ST. CLOUD, MN, US

September, 2016

TARGET: 10 wounded in knife attack in a mall

ATTACKER: Dahir Ahmed Adan

241 stories

NEW YORK, NY; SEASIDE PARK AND ELIZABETH, NJ, US

September, 2016

TARGET: 31 wounded in bombing in New York City; several explosive devices found in New York and New Jersey; one exploded without casualty at race in New Jersey; one police officer wounded in shootout

ATTACKER: Ahmad Khan Rahami

More than 3,000 stories

BRUSSELS, BELGIUM

October, 2016

TARGET: Two police officers wounded in stabbing

ATTACKER: Belgian national

31 stories

KUWAIT CITY, KUWAIT

TARGET: No casualties; vehicle carrying three US soldiers hit by a truck

ATTACKER: Ibrahim Sulayman

0 stories

MALMO, SWEDEN

October, 2016

TARGET: No casualties; mosque and community center attacked with Molotov cocktail

ATTACKER: Syrian national

26 stories

HAMBURG, GERMANY

October, 2016

TARGET: One killed in knife attack

ATTACKER: Unknown

516 stories

MANILA, PHILIPPINES

November, 2016

TARGET: No casualties; failed IED attempt near US Embassy

ATTACKERS: Philippine nationals aligned with the Maute group

1 story

COLUMBUS, OH, US

November, 2016

TARGET: 14 wounded by individuals who drove a vehicle into a group of pedestrians and attacked them with a knife

ATTACKER: US person

More than 3,000 stories

N'DJAMENA, CHAD

November, 2016

TARGET: No casualties; attacker arrested after opening fire at entrance of US Embassy

ATTACKER: Chadian national

11 stories

KARAK, JORDAN

December, 2016

TARGET: 10 killed and 28 wounded in shooting at a tourist site

ATTACKERS: Several gunmen

2,037 stories

BERLIN, GERMANY

December, 2016

TARGET: 12 killed and 48 wounded by individual who drove truck into a crowded market

ATTACKER: Anis Amri

More than 3,000 stories

*Kayleigh McEnany is a CNN commentator and a graduate of Harvard Law School. She studied politics at Oxford University. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely hers.

(CNN) The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals heard oral arguments Tuesday evening on whether Judge John Robart's temporary restraining order (TRO), which halts implementation of President Donald Trump's temporary freeze on travel from terror-prone countries, should stand. In hearing oral arguments, the Ninth Circuit -- the nation's most liberal court with the reputation as its most reversed -- ought to heed the words of Justice Antonin Scalia, notably quoted by President Trump's nominee to the Supreme Court, Neil Gorsuch: "If you're going to be a good and faithful judge, you have to resign yourself to the fact that you're not always going to like the conclusions you reach."

Indeed, if the Ninth Circuit rules as the law directs, it will rescind the TRO on President Trump's travel freeze, a decision several of the sitting judges might find unpalatable.

As Robart pointed out in his scantily explained order , a TRO is an "extraordinary remedy" that is issued "to preserve the status quo before the court holds a hearing on a motion for preliminary injunction." He notes that a TRO requires the plaintiff to prove that "he is likely to succeed on the merits," among other things.

Herein lies the problem: the plaintiff is far from likely to succeed in invalidating President Trump's order and thus is not entitled to a TRO.

As a preliminary matter, it is likely that the plaintiff -- the state of Washington -- does not even have standing to sue since a state may not sue "as the representative of its citizens." But even if Washington is able to bring the case, it should lose on the merits. The plaintiff alleges several causes of action, among them that President Trump's order denies equal protection and violates a congressional statute.

On the equal protection claim, the plaintiff argues, "The executive order was motivated... by a desire to harm a specific group... The discriminatory terms are arbitrary and cannot be sufficiently justified by federal interest."

First, the motive of the order was to protect US citizens from future terrorist attacks after the intelligence community has repeatedly warned of ISIS's efforts to infiltrate the refugee program. There is indeed a federal interest in preventing attacks like the one waged by a Somali immigrant inspired by ISIS on the campus of Ohio State , and the power to address future threats rests in the President's broad, expansive foreign affairs powers.

Second, the allegation that noncitizens seeking entry to the United States have equal protection rights guaranteed under the Fifth Amendment is highly questionable. The Supreme Court stated plainly in Landon v. Plasencia, "an alien seeking initial admission has no constitutional rights regarding his application, for the power to admit or exclude aliens is a sovereign prerogative."

In addition to the equal protection claim, the state of Washington refers to a law passed by Congress ( 8 U.S.C.  1152 (a)(1)(A) ), which states, "No person shall receive any preference or priority or be discriminated against in the issuance of an immigrant visa because of the person's race, sex, nationality, place of birth, or place of residence."

President Trump's executive order does indeed make delineations based on "place of residence," but there is an alternate statute ( 8 U.S.C.  1182(f) ), which reads, "Whenever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, he may by proclamation and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate."

The plain text of these two statutes suggests a conflict in the law. On one hand, Congress bars the visa discrimination on the basis of residence. On the other hand, Congress states that the President can bar "any class of aliens" for "such period as he shall deem necessary."

So which law governs President Trump's executive orders? The Supreme Court has stated that courts "must read the [conflicting] statutes to give effect to each if [it] can do so while preserving their sense and purpose." And even though the residence limitation was passed after the presidential power statute, "repeals by implication are not favored... and will not be found unless an intent to repeal is 'clear and manifest,'" according to the Court

Congress never stated its attempt to repeal the President's ability to bar "any class of aliens." Moreover, per the Court's instructions, both provisions can be given effect if the Court reads 1182(f) as a specific exception to the more general 1152(a)(1)(A), as the Department of Justice has suggested . Reading the two provisions together would read as follows: "no persons... Shall be discriminated against in the issuance of an immigrant visa because of... Place of residence" except where "the President finds that the entry... of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental." In other words, the statutes are compatible and should be construed that way.

There is already precedent for such a reading in the actions of President Jimmy Carter. Carter, for his part , "instructed his administration to 'invalidate all visas issued to Iranian citizens for future entry into the United States, effective today.'" Additionally, Carter required Iranian students to register with immigration officials. Ruling on the latter order, the DC Court of Appeals upheld the action, stating, "Distinctions on the basis of nationality may be drawn in the immigration field by the Congress or the Executive. So long as such distinctions are not wholly irrational they must be sustained."

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

The Trump administration can argue that its distinction based on nationality is not "wholly irrational," since it temporarily halts immigration from seven countries designated by the Obama administration as ineligible for the Visa Waiver Program due to terrorism concerns.

As the plaintiff is unlikely to succeed in arguing that President Trump's executive order is statutorily or constitutionally prohibited, the Ninth Circuit should rescind the temporary restraining order. The nation will soon learn whether personal politics or legal doctrine will carry the day.

*Story highlights Joshua Spivak: The power of a VP is not just in the permanent role

Pence's tie-breaking on DeVos is only the beginning, he writes

Joshua Spivak is a senior fellow at the Hugh L. Carey Institute for Government Reform at Wagner College in New York. He blogs at The Recall Elections Blog. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely his.

(CNN) The early days of the Trump administration have already seen reports of internal skirmishes among his team of advisers. Cabinet members have been left in the dark on major policy changes, and the early stories suggest that his former campaign CEO, Steve Bannon, has established a dominant position, with the inaugural address and many other actions aligning with Bannon's previous statements.

Joshua Spivak

While Bannon's success in the campaign has earned him a key role in the White House, Trump is well-known for quickly switching advisers, looking for the hot hand -- he went through three campaign managers last year . With that in mind, it may be that anyone who has Trump's ear may only keep it for a short time before they are ignored or cast aside.

Therefore, it pays to consider a key fact about his team when looking at which adviser may have the longest and impact: Save one, he can fire every of them, at any time. And that one unfireable official is Vice President Mike Pence.

The power of a VP is not just in his or her permanent role. A split with the VP would be politically embarrassing for any president, as it would show a significant divide in the party and the leadership. For Donald Trump, who has not established himself as a party unifier, it would especially be damaging. Pence is a well-liked former member of the House Republican leadership team, as well as a former governor. Any separation between Trump and Pence could reverberate against Trump in Congress.

Vice presidents also have an independent role, even if it is frequently maligned -- they preside over the Senate, which may seem to be a formality, but in the right hands it could be more than that. The VP also breaks tie votes in the Senate, and with the chamber closely divided, Pence is likely to have to use that power.

*Frida Ghitis is a world affairs columnist for The Miami Herald and World Politics Review, and a former CNN producer and correspondent. The views expressed in this commentary are her own.

(CNN) When President Trump equated the United States with the regime of Russian President Vladimir Putin, he took one more step in placing America at the center of a global war between democracy and authoritarianism.

Trump was defending the Russian President after Fox's Bill O'Reilly called Putin a " killer ." His response, "You think our country is so innocent," reveals Trump's dismissive attitude toward the most fundamental democratic norms that America has aspired to embody. Clearly, the United States has made many grave mistakes throughout history, but the country's guiding principles have remained unchanged: the fierce defense of individual liberties and an unshakeable commitment to democratic ideals.

In Russia, by contrast, Putin has decimated the opposition, imprisoned critics and taken control of all branches of government. The free press is a faint shadow of its former self, and Putin's critics, including journalists , continue to turn up dead under suspicious circumstances. One of Putin's most vocal critics, Vladimir Kara-Murza, remains in a Moscow hospital in "grave condition" after suffering a "full organ failure" that, as his lawyer told CNN , doctors agree is the result of a "toxic substance."

Despite Trump's comments and recent executive actions, Trump should expect push-back from a country committed to liberal democratic principles. This division between the President and the American people makes the United States the latest battleground in a worldwide clash of ideologies.

When the wave of populist authoritarianism started, few would have expected the United States, the principal beacon of modern democracy for over 200 years, to fall under the spell of nativist politics. But fall it did.

The many Americans who remain skeptical of Trump and now find themselves protesting on a weekly basis can take comfort in knowing they are not alone.

On Sunday, while the American public was rapt in the Super Bowl, an astonishing sight came into focus in Romania. Hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets to protest a government push to decriminalize corruption. The remarkable part was that protesters had already won.

Demonstrations had begun six days earlier, after the government tried to quietly pass a decree that would have cleared the records and freed from prison people convicted of corruption for amounts less than $47,000. The government agreed to rescind the order. But the demonstrations only grew, with protesters saying they came out to protect their democracy.

Romanians knew they had to fight for democracy because of their recent communist past and the onslaught in neighboring countries against liberal democracy, which requires separation of powers, a free judiciary, free and fair elections and, yes, freedom to protest.

Sadly, now, in the aftermath of the global financial crisis and the surge of refugee arrivals, demagogic politicians have leveraged popular discontent, lashing out against foreigners, vowing to put their country's "true" residents first, and gradually dismantling the foundations of liberal democracy.

JUST WATCHED Aisha Tyler: We've got to keep fighting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Aisha Tyler: We've got to keep fighting 03:49

Romanians seem to have won round one. But the forces defending democracy elsewhere, including in neighboring Hungary, have been losing. Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban openly declared he's building an " illiberal state ," and is making strides in his quest to imitate regimes run by the likes of Putin. Democratic freedoms have suffered sharp reverses in recent years. Turkey is slipping into dictatorship, Venezuela remains mired in autocracy, as do countries in every continent. But what's ahead for the United States?

Some veterans of the battle are pessimistic. When millions of mostly women took to the streets the day after Trump's inauguration, Julia Ioffe, whose family fled Russia, threw cold water on their jubilant movement, tweeting , "The happy, feisty crowds, the clever signs - it all feels like the protests in Moscow in 2011. That went nowhere."

It's true that protests have not achieved much against other authoritarian regimes. In Venezuela, the Chavista regime came to power in 1999, and despite every effort from a determined opposition, it remains in power. In Turkey, mass demonstrations, and even what seemed like electoral victories, have failed to stop Recep Tayyip Erdogan's march to de facto dictator. In Russia, Putin is all but unchallenged, with a quiescent legislature and near-complete control of the news Russians consume.

But the story is likely to have a different outcome in the United States. Yascha Mounk, a Harvard expert in right-wing populism, observed that Trump is turning out to be "more authoritarian than I feared," though the opposition is also proving "more courageous than I expected."

America has deeper democratic roots than any of the countries whose liberal democracies has been toppled. The national religion is freedom from tyranny.

The day after Trump took office, Americans put on what may have been the largest national demonstration in the country's history. A week later, when Trump issued his travel ban for seven Muslim-majority countries, spontaneous demonstrations materialized at major airports across the country. Lawyers filed legal briefs on the spot.

While the Republican-controlled Congress has proven mostly silent in countering Trump's attacks on the independent media and the judiciary, the press appears determined to do its job and judges seem unintimidated by White House bullying. Even members of the executive branch are speaking out.

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

Many Americans support Trump, but there are signs that his sharp break with democratic traditions, his attacks on judges, his fulminations against the media and against critics of all stripes -- from comedians to restaurant reviewers -- are producing a backlash.

History is being written by two opposing forces -- those fighting for and those fighting against liberal democracy. President Trump's likening of America to Putin's Russia puts him on the illiberal side. But the American people have spent hundreds of years building a strong democratic system, and they are prepared to fight to defend it.

*Michael D'Antonio is the author of the book "Never Enough: Donald Trump and the Pursuit of Success" (St. Martin's Press).The opinions expressed in this commentary are his.

(CNN) President for just two weeks, Donald Trump is courting a constitutional crisis over his ban on travelers from seven Muslim-majority countries.

He has spooked allies around the world, fired the acting attorney general , feuded with Arnold Schwarzenegger over TV ratings and inspired millions to protest in the streets.

Remarkably, Trump has managed to create all this excitement, drama and chaos with little effort.

The spree of irresponsibility has involved both putting his signature on hastily drafted documents and firing off words in public or on Twitter.

Trump's tweet about the "so-called" judge who stopped his anti-immigrant/anti-refugee order, for example, was uniquely impulsive for a modern President.

After each of these moves, Trump has then stood back and watched the world struggle to respond.

The easiest way to understand why Trump does all this might be to call it political arson.

The analogy isn't perfect, but consider how Trump and a skeleton White House crew have used multiple incendiary actions to create a sense of emergency, while expressing little concern for those who are affected.

This is precisely how an arsonist disturbs the peace. With a flick of a match, he sets a destructive fire and then thrills to the reactions.

Likewise, the nation and the world are reacting in the way of a city besieged by a fire-setter. Fear and confusion reign and, before an effective response develops, it seem as though stability will never return.

The arsonist mentality

Experts writing in the Journal of the American Academy of Psychiatry and the Law note that pyromania is a "disorder of impulse" afflicting people whose moods are out of sync with their objective reality. If it is not stopped and addressed -- either by the criminal justice system or mental health intervention -- the arsonist's behavior becomes a chronic problem. This is why communities under an arsonist's attack will be plagued by one fire after another.

Does Donald Trump fit the arsonist profile? His impulsiveness has been evident throughout his life. As a boy he was so out of control that his parents sent him away to military school for discipline. In business, a big humiliating bankruptcy wasn't enough to stop his risk-taking. He went on to suffer three more. Instead of one headline-grabbing public divorce he had two.

In his campaign for President, he could not control his provocative behavior. When violence loomed at his rallies he used his microphone to encourage it . In debates and campaign speeches he torched his rivals with a stream of personal insults and distortions (such as repeating unsubstantiated claims from the National Enquirer that Ted Cruz's father helped killed JFK ) never seen in a modern major party candidate.

JUST WATCHED Donald Trump implies Rafael Cruz knew JFK assassin Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Donald Trump implies Rafael Cruz knew JFK assassin 01:29

Trump set fire to the GOP, happily burning down the structure for his own benefit.

As President, Trump's behavior has frequently contradicted the mood of what was going on around him. At his inauguration he didn't celebrate with a positive vision of the country, but instead described a nation on the brink of dystopia. A prayer breakfast became a forum for boasting. At a visit to the Central Intelligence Agency he complained about the press.

Were Trump alone in his impulsive and dark-minded condition he might have been contained by sober advisers. Instead, he has been aided mainly by an adviser, Stephen Bannon, who is committed to upending the political order and rose to prominence as head of a website that dispenses bigoted messages.

Apparently the most influential man in Trump's orbit, Bannon has no experience in public service and has likened himself, and his followers, to "know-nothing vulgarians."

The arson dynamic

Although arsonists frequently plead not guilty by reason of insanity, they rarely win this argument. This is because they are not generally considered to be delusional or otherwise separated from reality.

Simply put, they know what they are doing, and they know that it is wrong, but the compulsion is too strong and the thrill of the crime is too great. This issue was settled in a case involving a fire-setter who lit a barn ablaze , gazed at it from a distance, reported the fire and then asked the first responders if he could ride along with them to the scene.

In communities besieged by an arsonist, residents and public officials may fail at first to recognize what's happening. A spate of fires can seem simply a matter of coincidence until the pattern is established and the problem gets worse.

By then the public is alarmed and afraid and investigators are hard-pressed to stop the destruction. In the early 2000s, for instance, officials in greater Washington finally realized they had a serial fire-setter on their hands when Thomas Sweatt crossed into Maryland to commit one of his crimes.

With political arson, once it is recognized, it is not as mysterious as the problem of a fire-setter working under the cover of night to torch buildings.

Trump's destructive tendencies were once obscured by the notion that he would act as a normal President when the weight of the office settled upon him. This cover was blown when he issued his anti-immigrant executive order. Trump and his team have also signaled their disrupting intentions with diatribes against the press, assertions of "alternative facts," and wild claims about voter fraud that cast doubt on the foundation of American democracy.

Countering the chaos

One textbook on arson notes that people who set fires like to feel they have outsmarted the authorities and enjoy testing their intelligence against them. They are adept at reading others and not generally burdened by feelings of guilt. Some experts recommend sending female investigators to interrogate male suspects, believing they may slip up because they feel insulted under their questioning. The point here is that overconfidence and arrogance can make an arsonist vulnerable to those who set out to stop the crisis.

In the case of Sweatt, a determined and massive investigation led to the discovery of a small flaw in his methods. He used bits of his own clothing to make his fires and the remains contained DNA evidence.

JUST WATCHED A credibility problem for the White House? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH A credibility problem for the White House? 04:31

Trump's political arson is now encountering a massive and increasingly well-organized opposition. Like a community terrorized by fire, the nation was temporarily shaken, but it is recovering its balance. Citizens gathering in the street and at airports signal resolve. Journalists monitor every development. Court cases brought in defense of the Constitution resemble firefighters' efforts to put out the flames.

In Washington state, a federal court order halting the Trump immigration ban across the country represented a defining act on behalf of a national community reacting to crisis. Although many Americans remain alarmed by the emergency created by the new administration, the response of the courts and others has been remarkably swift. In just two weeks, a White House devoted to chaos has been stopped, at least temporarily, by a system designed to put out fires.

*Page Pate is a criminal defense and constitutional lawyer based in Atlanta. He is an adjunct professor of law at the University of Georgia, a founding member of the Georgia Innocence Project, a former board member of the Federal Defender Program in Atlanta, and the former chairman of the criminal law section of the Atlanta Bar Association. Follow him on Twitter @pagepate . The opinions expressed in this commentary are his.

(CNN) Before he was elected President, Donald Trump made it clear he wanted to keep Muslims from entering the United States. In fact, he called for a "total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States," a stance he slightly modified during the campaign.

Now that he is President, it looks like Trump is trying to accomplish the initial shutdown he called for on the campaign trail.

On January 27, Trump signed an executive order that significantly restricts the rights of people from seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the United States. This order is a thinly veiled attempt to discriminate against Muslims. Because the policy reflected in this order targets a particular religious group, even though it doesn't cover every country in which Muslims predominate, it is unconstitutional.

The executive order

It has been called a "travel ban," but the official title of the executive order signed by Trump is "Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the United States."

That sounds like a good thing, right? Keeping America safe is one of the most important priorities of our government. But the actual policy and practice behind this order is inconsistent with its stated purpose.

Several states, and many private individuals, have challenged the order on various grounds. Their arguments are different, but almost all of them involve the same core issues: Is this executive order an attempt to discriminate against Muslims? And, if it is, can this possibly be legal?

Is this a ban on Muslims?

As the White House has pointed out numerous times in the past few days, there is nothing in the order that specifically bans Muslims from entering the country. It is true the order does not mention Muslims by name. It is also true that most Muslims around the world are not directly affected by this order. And the restrictions in this order seem to apply to anyone who is a resident of the seven named countries, whether they are Muslim or not.

If it was just about the text of the order, it would be difficult to call it unconstitutional. But it's not only what's in the order that's important; it's the intent of the order and how it's being carried out.

Both as a candidate and as President, Trump has said a lot about immigration that shows his real intentions. As a candidate, Trump called for a "ban on Muslims." He repeated this idea often, and in a slightly different way several times during the campaign.

After the election, Rudy Giuliani, who is close to Trump and was a strong supporter of his campaign, also expressed Trump's desire to ban Muslims, but to make it appear legal. And when the executive order was signed, there was a focus not just on terrorists, but " Islamic" terrorists . Perhaps even more revealing, Trump made clear shortly after signing the order that he was going to "help" Christians by giving them preference in obtaining permission to enter the country.

Based on his own words, and the initial actions of the executive branch in applying this order to legal permanent residents, it's clear what Trump wants to do. He wants to stop Muslims from coming into the country. If that's his true intent, then this order is effectively a "Muslim ban."

Is a ban on Muslims legal?

That brings us to the second question: Can Trump actually ban Muslims from coming into the United States? That may seem like a simple question, but it's really not. There is no clear ruling from any court that such a ban would be legal or illegal. The issue boils down to a question of power: How far can a President go in limiting who is allowed to enter the United States?

There is no dispute the President has a tremendous amount of discretion in determining who can enter the United States. The President is given this authority through the immigration laws passed by Congress and the President's own constitutional power to protect national security.

Because the President has this power, Trump's lawyers have argued the President has every right, indeed a responsibility, to issue an order like this to protect the country from terrorists.

If this order just protected us from "terrorists," then it would be perfectly legal. But the order identifies "terrorists" as people who are residents of these seven countries. Putting aside the question of whether people from these countries are all terrorists, or even mostly terrorists, singling out this group of countries suggests the order is focused on more than just national security, and that's where it runs into trouble.

The Immigration and Nationality Act

There are a variety of different legal challenges to this order. Some of them rely on the Constitution; some rely on laws passed by Congress. One argument is that the order violates the Immigration and Nationality Act, or INA, a law passed by Congress to deal with immigration into the United States.

JUST WATCHED Refugees living in US send message to Trump Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Refugees living in US send message to Trump 02:21

One part of the INA prohibits discrimination based on a person's race, sex, nationality, place of birth or place of residence. This provision seems to clearly prevent the type of discrimination called for by the express terms of the order. But there is another provision in the INA that gives the President the power to deny any person entry into the country if the President determines the person's presence would be "detrimental to the interests of the United States." This provision appears to allow the President to discriminate on any basis, as long as the group being discriminated against presents a danger to the country.

The constitutional arguments

There are three basic constitutional arguments against the executive order: it violates the due process rights of noncitizens, it denies equal protection to noncitizens who are Muslim and it promotes one religion over another.

The due process argument is based on the Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution. Among other things, this amendment protects people from being deprived of their rights without "due process of law." The states' argument here is that taking legal status away from people who have already been approved for entry into the country without giving them a fair hearing is a violation of their rights.

Of course, this argument only works for people who have the right to be here. For people who are not legally in this country, the argument is a little different. They may be entitled to due process to the extent they have a chance to be considered for entry into the United States as a refugee or asylum-seeker. That's a process created by Congress, and one that shouldn't be arbitrarily taken away.

But this issue is not just about the rights of immigrants and refugees. There is also a very compelling argument that this order violates the constitutional guarantees of equal protection and religious freedom. And those rights affect us all, citizens and noncitizens.

In my opinion, a "Muslim ban" would be unconstitutional in two ways. First, it would be a violation of the Fifth Amendment guarantee of equal protection in that it treats a specific class of people (Muslims from the seven countries) differently than other noncitizens. Second, the order would violate the First Amendment's Establishment Clause by giving preference to one religion over another.

Like due process, the concept of equal protection is based on the Fifth Amendment. Equal protection prevents the government from unfairly discriminating against any person based on his or her race, national origin or religion. These protections arguably apply to people who are legally here, and to people who show up at the border or an airport trying to gain entry into the United States.

JUST WATCHED Trump immigration ban sparks chaos, confusion Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump immigration ban sparks chaos, confusion 03:41

To be clear, the doctrine of equal protection does not prevent all discrimination. There may be certain situations where the only way to accomplish a legitimate and necessary governmental function is to discriminate in some way. But if that happens, the government had better be able to show a really good reason for it and provide strong evidence that there is no other viable alternative. I don't think they have done that here.

The other reason I think this order is unconstitutional is because it is likely to violate the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment if it is enforced in the way Trump and his surrogates have promised.

The "Establishment Clause" is found in the First Amendment: "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion." This clause has been interpreted to cover laws passed by Congress and any official action by the government, and that would include executive orders. "Establishment" doesn't just mean the creation of an official state religion. It also means the government can't give preference (in any law, regulation or policy) to one religion over another.

In this case, the Establishment Clause argument is based on President Trump's comments about targeting Muslims and giving preference to Christians. The argument also draws support from the language in the executive order, specifically Section 5(b), which gives preference to religious minorities in refugee programs.

Do states have a right to challenge this order?

The courts may never reach the constitutional issues if they decide these states do not have "standing" to sue the federal government over this order. To be able to file a lawsuit in court, you must have legal standing. Having "standing" basically means having the right to sue. A state can't simply sue the federal government because certain state officials disagree with a federal law or policy. A state has to point to a specific harm or injury the law or policy is causing that state.

In this case, the states argue that they have standing because immigration affects their economy in various ways. They also argue the order affects the operation and reputation of state universities and other institutions.

In response, Trump's lawyers argue these states have no legal standing because the problems mentioned by the states are too speculative and, now that the White House has " clarified " that the order shouldn't apply to legal permanent residents, the states are not really suffering any recognizable financial or reputational harm.

I think this is a close call. In the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans, or DAPA, case , Texas, joined by several other states, sued the government over a federal order focused on immigration. Texas argued that implementation of this order would cost the state too much money. Texas won at the district and appellate level, though the Supreme Court never reached the merits of this argument.

In DAPA, Texas had a better standing argument than Washington and Minnesota do here. The economic harms were more specific and concrete. And, perhaps more importantly, if Washington and Minnesota can't include legal residents in their claims because the order doesn't apply to them, their standing argument is even weaker.

But judges don't like to leave major constitutional questions unanswered, and the only other way to challenge this order in court would be by individual lawsuits filed by the people who are directly affected by the order. That could quickly result in a patchwork of different cases and different rulings, and create even more confusion over the legality of this order.

Debate is a good thing

This debate, as messy as it may be, is a good thing for the country. Unless Trump administration officials decide to start ignoring court orders (which they have fortunately agreed to follow for now), there will be no constitutional crisis.

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

As for Trump himself, he seems content just to use a series of tweets to insult the judge who disagreed with him. While that's certainly not very presidential, it really doesn't create any legal crisis. The judges will just ignore him, like many of the rest of us try to do.

Whatever the final decision, this important discussion in our courts and our communities will show the strength of the Constitution and the separation of powers. The fact that a single federal district judge can stop the actions of the President is a reflection of the principle that we are a nation built on the rule of law, not on the whims of a power-hungry man. We will soon see if that principle holds true.

*David Miliband is president of the International Rescue Committee . He is a former British Member of Parliament and a former British foreign secretary. The opinions in this article belong to the author.

(CNN) The Trump administration's decision to close the door to refugees fleeing conflict and disaster has become mired in legal morass.

It has caused humanitarian chaos -- children denied entry into the United States for medical treatment and staff supporting US Embassy personnel in Iraq losing their chance to come.

The beneficiaries of this policy have been extremists, who can now say across the Muslim world: "The US will never help you."

After a tumultuous week, the consequences of administrative haste and policy confusion resulted in Friday's ruling by US District Judge James Robart

Last week's events did not go unnoticed by the American public: According to a new Gallup Poll , the knee-jerk policies included in Donald Trump's executive order are not ones the majority of Americans support.

What remains unclear to most Americans is that the existing security vetting system for refugees is rigorous and tough. The process can take up to 36 months and involves 12 to 15 government agencies, which conduct biometric testing and in-person interviews to ensure entrants to the United States are not a danger.

JUST WATCHED President's response to restraining order Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH President's response to restraining order 03:49

The Government did execute two welcome U-Turns last week. Green card holders are to be admitted, as well as those who supported the US military in Iraq and Afghanistan.

But the folly of the broad-ranging nature of the order -- and the lack of input from expert professionals -- means not just that successful H1B visa holders are currently excluded if they are nationals of the seven banned countries, but also some of the most vulnerable people in the world, refugees, are being kept out because the ban on them is total for 120 days (and indefinite for Syrians).

It goes against America's founding values and core interests.

The humanitarian case is obvious. But the geopolitical case is important, too. The United States benefits from stability around the world -- and a key contributor to that stability is its ability to help allies tackle humanitarian problems and defeat hateful ideology that threatens Western and Muslim countries alike.

Sens. Lindsey Graham and Sen. John McCain put this well: "Our most important allies in the fight against ISIL are the vast majority of Muslims who reject its apocalyptic ideology of hatred. This executive order sends a signal, intended or not, that America does not want Muslims coming into our country. That is why we fear this executive order may do more to help terrorist recruitment than improve our security."

Former jihadists have told CNN that ISIS will use the travel ban as a recruitment tool, "making it clear to anyone in doubt that it's a war on Islam and all Muslims." Also troubling, Trump is already being featured in propaganda videos , fueling the belief that Americans fear Muslims for the sole reason they are Muslim. It is no secret that ISIS seeks to provoke an anti-Muslim backlash , as it articulated in a 2015 essay, because such a reaction enables the militants to persuade individuals to join their ranks.

Further, it is giving them the fodder to convince more people that Americans do not believe they are deserving of the same freedoms to which we are entitled. The International Rescue Committee knows from our work in 29 US cities that when refugees arrive, they are welcomed with traditional American hospitality for the most vulnerable. But we also know from our humanitarian work in war zones and fragile states around the world that reputation and reality do not always match.

Trump's ban has been claimed as a victory for terrorists and the fulfillment of the words of Anwar al-Awlaki , the late American-born al Qaeda leader, who predicted that the "West would eventually turn against its Muslim citizens."

Over the past week, the IRC has seen families torn apart. We have feared for those who supported American servicemen and women abroad. And, heartbreakingly, we have seen children who survived unspeakable tragedy face a still-uncertain future -- and a mistaken view of American values.

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

There is a way out of this mess. The administration is perfectly entitled to review vetting arrangements. That would be a normal piece of policymaking. What is not normal is the suspension of the entire refugee arrivals process or the visa entry system for seven countries. So the administration should announce the reviews will go ahead, but existing arrangements will continue until the reviews are concluded.

This is not a choice between safety and danger. It is a choice between common sense and alarmism, between bridge building and divisiveness, between strengthening your own country and scoring a goal in your own net.

*(CNN) Will Republicans back away from repealing the Affordable Care Act? That's the rumbling from Washington. Though President Trump said in a Fox News interview on Sunday that it could take until next year to introduce a new plan, some Republicans have been saying they now intend to "repair" the ACA rather than repeal or replace it.

"We want to repair the ACA and I have never favored its repeal without a replacement," said Rep. Leonard Lance of New Jersey. "I think it needs to be repaired and we are trying to focus on repairing it and that is why we're conducting this hearing along with other hearings."

For some supporters of the program, such statements will bring a little relief. Could this be the beginning of the long-awaited backlash to Trump's rightward agenda that liberals have been waiting for? Are Republicans in Congress rethinking their opposition to the ACA in light of concerns that constituents will lose access to health care, or because of the push-back from an insurance industry troubled by uncertainty?

Maybe not.

While the challenges of dismantling the ACA are serious, so, too, is the determination of a united Republican government aware of the damage it can inflict on a key part of Obama's legacy. The change in terminology -- from repeal to repair -- may well just be a strategic semantic move, something Republicans have been brilliant at when dealing with former President Obama's health care program.

Throughout the debates over health care -- from when Obama proposed the program to the moment Congress finally passed the legislation, to the years that followed -- the GOP has used the language through which they talked about the policy as a political tool.

Early on, Republicans brought up topics such as death panels, and dubbed the plan "Obamacare" to try to delegitimize the program. When there was a backlash to the notion of repealing the program, they introduced the concept of "repeal and replace" to soften the opposition. Now, as they grapple with the mechanics of actually eliminating the program, it seems Republicans are going back to the rhetorical playbook to see what words might be employed to establish better political conditions for moving forward.

In fact, it is not at all clear that this is a major retreat. The very first executive order to come from the White House centered on instructions to all the agencies to do what was necessary to undercut the ACA. Given that most of the agencies are going to be led and staffed by conservative critics of the program, this announcement in itself creates a massive threat to the program. With fierce ACA opponent Tom Price in charge of the program, Obama's supporters should be cautious about celebrating any possible change of heart.

Even if the ACA remains on the books, if agencies don't enforce key components of the policy, such as the individual mandate, and if they don't devote the resources necessary to properly administer the program, this federal policy will be vulnerable.

JUST WATCHED Cancer survivor's dad: Can parts of ACA stay? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Cancer survivor's dad: Can parts of ACA stay? 02:46

We have already seen some of the effects. In the final days of the enrollment period, which is critical to ensure a sufficient number of healthy individuals are in the program so overall insurance costs go down, the administration pulled advertising and outreach efforts that were intended to make Americans aware of the deadline. The New York Times reported that there was a 4% decline in the total number of Americans signed up through healthcare.gov as a result of these efforts. "Trump's sabotage worked," lamented the spokesman for former Secretary of HHS Sylvia Mathews Burwell.

Even as far as the ACA and Medicaid are concerned, and this was one part of the ACA that has always been popular with the public, there is a serious, longer-term threat. Even if Republicans suggest that they might allow the ACA Medicaid enrollments to continue, the fact is that congressional Republicans are pushing for a major transformation of this program, put into place in 1965 as part of the Great Society.

Republicans are eager to transform Medicaid into a block grant, an idea some in the party have been pushing since Ronald Reagan entered office in 1981. The result would be that rather than providing an open-ended right to health care, states would obtain a chunk of money and would have much greater discretion to make cuts and redesign policies in the manner they wanted. But a shift to a block grant would result in huge reductions in federal spending, which would then likely require states to cut eligibility and benefits. If this happened, Medicaid enrollees might find their benefits at risk.

This might be academic, though, because there is broad -- and understandable -- skepticism over whether Republicans are really rethinking repeal in the first place.

JUST WATCHED Trump's HHS pick dodges questions on Obamacare Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump's HHS pick dodges questions on Obamacare 04:50

Since the 1990s, when pollster Frank Lunz instructed Newt Gingrich and his colleagues on how to use and manipulate language to soften the blow of tough policies that conservatives pursue, there have always been semantic games coming out of the GOP aimed at masking the actual effects of their policies. For example, when President George W. Bush pushed for an incredibly regressive tax cut in 2001 that primarily benefited wealthier Americans and business, the administration went to great lengths, as the political scientists Paul Pierson and Jacob Hacker have shown, to put out promotional rhetoric that suggested this was a tax cut for average middle class Americans.

Given how central eliminating the ACA has been to the Republican agenda -- and what it would mean symbolically for President Donald Trump to back away from this promise at a moment of united government -- there is reason to be skeptical that this change in rhetoric will lead to a substantive shift in policy.

Indeed, members of the Freedom Caucus are already making their views clear.

"I'm hearing a lot of members say that they want Obamacare-lite," warned the tea party Republican Rep. Raul Labrador of Idaho, "That's not what we promised the American people." As we have seen during the Obama presidency, if the Freedom Caucus is united on an issue and determined to hold its ground, there is little that the Republican leadership can or will do to overcome it.

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

So yes, the ACA might survive the moment. And we have seen how some programs, like Social Security or the Earned Income Tax Credit, gain so much support after being on the books for a number of years that retrenchment becomes nearly impossible given how many beneficiaries emerge.

Yet it is far too early for ACA supporters to be so optimistic. The risks to the program are very real in the coming months. Rather than listening to what Republicans are saying, Democrats would be better served to watch what they are actually doing.

*Dean Obeidallah, a former attorney, is the host of SiriusXM radio's daily program "The Dean Obeidallah Show" and a columnist for The Daily Beast. Follow him @deanofcomedy . The opinions expressed in this commentary are his.

(CNN) On Saturday morning, President Donald Trump may have unleashed his most bone-chilling tweet -- at least to those who believe the United States should not become a Trump-led dictatorship. And I don't make that comment simply to be provocative or without giving it a great deal of thought. Our democracy is far more fragile than some might grasp and Trump is engaging in a concerted effort to undermine the workings of it.

Here is Trump's truly jaw-dropping tweet from Saturday morning: "The opinion of this so-called judge, which essentially takes law-enforcement away from our country, is ridiculous and will be overturned!"

Why is this so concerning? It's OK to argue about whether the judge should or shouldn't have issued this order. But Trump is apparently attempting to delegitimize our federal judiciary by calling Judge James Robart, a George W. Bush-appointed judge, a "so-called" judge while arguing that his decision is "ridiculous."

Let's be blunt, because the stakes demand it: An independent federal judiciary is our last, best hope at preventing Trump from violating the US Constitution and illegally grabbing power. And Trump has to understand that, hence his attempt to undermine it.

The President truly appears to be leading a master class in transforming the United States into a dictatorship. Trump -- and it's fair to assume it is by design -- has sought to undermine anyone or anything that tries to counter him.

First, Trump has made the media -- which is a watchdog of our presidents -- a focus of his attacks, calling them "dishonest," claiming they peddle "fake news" and even recently labeling them "the opposition party." The practical result is that when the media calls out Trump's lies and presents objective facts to counter him, his followers will likely dismiss the media reports and instead side with Trump.

Then Trump went after our intelligence agencies because he didn't agree with their views on Russia's involvement in our recent election. Trump lashed out, calling these agencies, charged with gathering information for our national security, "disgraceful" and accusing them of leaking information, comparing it to "something that Nazi Germany would have done."

Trump has clearly begun the process of destroying their credibility so if they come forward in the future to oppose his views or offer facts to undermine his position, he will tell his followers they also aren't to be believed.

And now Trump, who attacked a judge during his campaign, citing his Mexican heritage, has turned on our judiciary again. But this time it's far more disturbing given Trump is not a candidate, but president of the United States. The rationale must be assumed to be the same, namely that Trump wants to delegitimize the judiciary so that court decisions Trump disagrees with will be viewed by his followers as at the least horribly partisan, or at worst invalid.

It's frightening to think where this could lead. For example, when the United States Supreme Court ruled in the historic case of Brown v. Board of Education that racial segregation in our public schools was unconstitutional, it took then-President Dwight Eisenhower to implement that decision

Arkansas Gov. Orval Faubus had refused to follow the Court's decision and instead surrounded an all-white high school in his state with National Guard troops to prevent its integration. Eisenhower responded by federalizing the Arkansas National Guard to enforce the Supreme Court's seminal decision and allow black students to attend the school.

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

Would Trump do the same if he had passionately disagreed with the Court's decision or would he simply ignore it while attacking the legitimacy of our judiciary, sparking a constitutional crisis? And would certain Trump-supporting federal agency heads, or even federal officers, refuse to follow court orders (or at least do it very slowly) because Trump has convinced them the federal judiciary's decisions cannot be trusted?

There's no doubt Trump supporters are very loyal to him personally. Keep in mind that Trump infamously bragged that he could even shoot a person on Fifth Avenue in New York and his supporters would still be on his side. And according to a CNN/ORC poll , while Trump has only a 44% approval rating overall, 90% of Republicans think he's doing a good job.

The Founding Fathers enshrined a separation of powers in our Constitution so that there would be inherent checks and balances to avoid a situation where a president could become a king. After all, the Founders had just risked life and limb rebelling against the King of England.

Trump's concerted attacks to delegitimize our media, our intelligence community and now our federal judiciary would have no doubt alarmed them. And it should be terrifying to every American who truly believes in our Constitution and in the promise of America.

*Issac Bailey has been a journalist in South Carolina for two decades and was most recently the primary columnist for The Sun News in Myrtle Beach. He was a 2014 Harvard University Nieman fellow. Follow him on Twitter: @ijbailey . The views expressed are his own.

(CNN) During the election, much ink was wasted on the number of Donald Trump voters who would choose him despite, rather than because, of his bigotry. More time should have been spent on perhaps the most insulting comment a presidential candidate has ever made about his own supporters.

"I could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody, and I wouldn't lose voters," Trump proudly boasted last year. That single quote explains why the media and all those who believe in a better America must take seriously their role as an opposition party during the Trump administration.

Notably, the aforementioned quote came from candidate Trump. Now, as President Trump, he responded to Bill O'Reilly's claim that Vladimir Putin is a killer by saying , "There are a lot of killers. We have a lot of killers. Well, you think our country is so innocent?"

President Trump can run his mouth, just as he could have shot someone and not lost, knowing that Americans who took President Obama to task for a supposed apology tour will run to his defense even as he belittles an imperfect, but great country.

This latest comment, made in a pre-Super Bowl Fox News interview, proves Trump knows that no matter what he says, no matter what he does, tens of millions of Americans will defend him against every criticism, even when it legitimate or well-deserved. That will provide him fuel to push forward with every promise and unpopular policy -- regardless of potential damage -- while being unafraid of rolling back laws such as Dodd-Frank at the expense of the everyday American.

JUST WATCHED Trump: 'You think our country's so innocent?' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: 'You think our country's so innocent?' 02:05

And that's why I'm a proud member of what White House adviser Steve Bannon calls " the opposition party ." The best defense for our democracy in times like these should be a Republican Party, which holds dear its long-stated principles of the preservation of liberty, religious freedom, compassion, anti-bigotry and the protection of life. But given the reality that was Trump's first two weeks in office and the tendency of top GOP leaders to remain silent , soft pedal their criticism or side with the new President, everyone else must find the clarity to oppose him when our most cherished principles are at stake.

Had the GOP adhered to its professed principles, a man like Trump would have never secured the Republican presidential nomination, let alone moved into the White House. No Republican should have ignored his bigotry last year. A handful of conservatives have owned up to that massive misjudgment and spoken forcefully against decisions like his immigration executive action. However, a majority have not. And how can those who refuse to do even that be expected to uphold American ideals against a man who seems to devalue them?

Meanwhile, the Democratic Party is still finding its way in the Trump era, seemingly willing to find common ground with Trump one minute, ready to oppose most of the President's appointments the next.

That leaves the task of checks and balances to the rest of us. And it shouldn't be because of a personal dislike of Trump. I for one am a member of the opposition because I refuse to turn back the clock on a country I love.

I'm opposed to open bigotry.

I'm opposed to snatching life-saving health care from millions of Americans for no good reason.

I'm opposed to a seemingly endless stream of lies and repeated falsehoods.

I'm opposed to alternative facts.

And if the President continues engaging in these acts -- like he did throughout his campaign -- I will oppose him on those grounds, not to enforce a kind of political correctness, but rather to defend common decency in the United States.

Truth be told, the opposition party Bannon referred to is actually the majority of Americans -- not just the media. Trump did not win half the vote during the Republican primary or the popular vote during the general election, and he has an approval rating hovering around 44%, according to the latest CNN poll

That tells me that many Americans are horrified by the direction Trump is trying to pull this country, that many of us are taken aback by Trump's attempt to transform a country that long prided itself on its embrace of the downtrodden -- even when we struggled mightily to uphold that standard -- to one stuck in a cowardly crouch, afraid of the rest of the world.

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

That tells me that there is fertile ground upon which the rest of us can stand to hold dear the principles the Republican Party has declined to defend because it wants to protect a Republican president and policies it could not enact with a Democrat in the White House.

It may not always seem effective, but a consistent expression of opposition, through peaceful protests, letters to the editors and calls to lawmakers, can bring about positive change.

Too many times throughout our history we have failed to uphold the highest moral standards, and too many times we have looked back on those decisions with shame. Let's not make that mistake today.

*(CNN) The enforcement of President Donald Trump's executive order halting the admission of refugees to the United States came to a grinding halt this weekend after a federal judge in Washington state issued a temporary restraining order. The judge's ruling, which the President soon condemned on Twitter, raises more questions than it answers.

The state of Washington argued before Judge James Robart that the restraining order should be issued to stop any harm while it pursues its case. The state's lawyers argued that it is likely to ultimately prevail in this case because the executive order violates the Constitution and federal law.

Among the offended legal principles, they contend, are the Equal Protection Clause; the Establishment Clause; Due Process; and the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA). It offered detailed reasons why each of these were violated by the administration's order, which blocks citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries from coming to the United States for 90 days, prohibits all refugees for 120 days and places an indefinite halt to admission of refugees from Syria.

The plaintiffs sought a preliminary injunction, as well as a temporary restraining order. The TRO was granted Friday; the preliminary injunction has not yet been decided.

An injunction is a court order commanding a person either to perform or to refrain from performing a particular action.

In this case, the district court has not yet decided on the request for a preliminary injunction. And even a preliminary injunction is not a decision on the merits. A preliminary injunction only preserves the status quo pending a resolution on the merits.

So, what's the difference between a temporary restraining order and a preliminary injunction, if the preliminary injunction itself is "temporary"? The preliminary injunction preserves the status quo and the rights of the parties until a final judgment on the merits, while a TRO preserves the status quo before a preliminary injunction hearing may be held, because even that date isn't soon enough.

Photos: Yazidi toddler waits without his parents for surgery Photos: Yazidi toddler waits without his parents for surgery Dilbireen Muhsin, a 2-year-old boy from Iraq's Yazidi community, was born in a refugee camp January 4, 2015. Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: Yazidi toddler waits without his parents for surgery Dilbireen, a cheerful child, has a love of animals. Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: Yazidi toddler waits without his parents for surgery Around his first birthday, Dilbireen was burned in a fire. He flew to the US for reconstructive surgery on his face in October. Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: Yazidi toddler waits without his parents for surgery Since his first surgery, Dilbireen has been cared for by a Yazidi advocate, Adlay Kejjan, in Michigan. Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: Yazidi toddler waits without his parents for surgery As Dilbireen waits for his second round of surgeries, his parents, who are still in Iraq, have finally been issued visas so they can come to the US to be with their son. Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: Yazidi toddler waits without his parents for surgery Dilbireen celebrated his 2nd birthday in the US last month. In a message to the boy, father Ajeel Muhsin said, "I am hopeful that we will come soon. Finish all your operations. After that, we will return to Iraq. We love you. Kisses." Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: Yazidi toddler waits without his parents for surgery Dilbireen has grown into an independent toddler who brushes his own teeth. Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: Yazidi toddler waits without his parents for surgery Kejjan said said she prayed that Dilbireen's parents would get the travel visas they needed to by their son's side. Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: Yazidi toddler waits without his parents for surgery Dilbireen has started to notice that "he is different," Kejjan said. Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: Yazidi toddler waits without his parents for surgery "When he plays with kids, he like touches their eyes and nose. He realizes there's something different about him, and it's really, really sad, because these kids, they run away. ... They're always scared of him," Kejjan said. Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: Yazidi toddler waits without his parents for surgery Kejjan, who works as a pilot, has shown a curious Dilbireen how airplanes are operated. Hide Caption 11 of 12 Photos: Yazidi toddler waits without his parents for surgery Kejjan, who also works as a paramedic, has shown Dilbireen some of her medical equipment. Hide Caption 12 of 12

The difference really boils down to the level of exigency. A preliminary injunction is time-sensitive, even urgent. A TRO is an EMERGENCY.

That's why a temporary restraining order and a preliminary injunction share the same high standard . They are both considered extraordinary remedies, never awarded lightly , or as a right. They should not be granted unless the plaintiff clearly shows it is entitled to one.

The state of Washington, as a plaintiff, had to establish it was likely to succeed on the merits, likely to suffer irreparable harm, and that this injunction would be in the public interest. Serious questions going to the merits can also support issuance of a preliminary injunction, too.

The Trump administration and the Department of Justice argued that the state was likely to fail when a judge ultimately rules on the merits of the case. According to the DOJ, Congress has complete power over the admission and exclusion of aliens, which it has expressly delegated to the President through the INA.

A provision of the Immigration and Nationality Act titled "Suspension of entry or imposition of restrictions by President," 8 U.S.C.  1182(f), authorizes the President to "suspend the entry of ... any class of aliens" whenever the President determines their entry "would be detrimental to the interests of the United States."

Both sides had well-reasoned arguments, based on federal law or the Constitution itself. So, which argument was most persuasive?

The court's heavily-anticipated written opinion prompts all sorts of questions. There's no indication which legal argument actually won over this judge. Was it one of the constitutional claims, like Equal Protection? Or was it the argument that the executive order violates federal law, like the INA? For the most part, we're left wondering.

The opinion discusses in some depth the standard for granting injunctive relief. But that's neither controversial nor newsworthy; the standard itself is well-established law. The court then simply concludes that the plaintiff has met its burden -- without really telling us WHY.

In fairness, this opinion was issued at breakneck speed. Plus, this kind of determination is not supposed to be a decision on the merits. It's actually the opposite: It's a temporary fix -- until the court can have another hearing, to decide whether to apply another temporary fix (preliminary injunction); until eventually the court can someday have the hearing that actually decides the case on the merits.

When you look at it in context, the judge had a good reason not to get too deep into the merits of the case in this TRO. That good reason is: A TRO is not supposed to be a determination of the merits.

The Trump administration has said it will file an emergency motion to set aside the judge's restraining order. And Trump has tweeted that the opinion from a "so-called judge" is "ridiculous." How will the appellate court analyze the judge's decision if there isn't much to go on?

The 9th Circuit Court of Appeals reviews a district court's preliminary injunction for abuse of discretion, a limited and deferential standard.

That standard means that if the District Court identified and applied the correct legal rule, the appeals court will reverse only if the court's factual findings were illogical, implausible or without support based on the facts in the record.

So on the one hand, the appeals court as a rule defers to the lower court. On the other hand, where the written opinion is sparse on identifying legal rules or factual findings, the 9th Circuit might not have much to defer to.

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

As an even greater challenge to the Trump administration, a temporary restraining order is not classified as an injunction. It is not generally subject to appeal as a right , though under these extraordinary circumstances, there's no telling how the appeals court might handle it.

As an alternative to appeal in the 9th Circuit, the Trump administration could try to file a motion with the same District Court, asking it to stay its TRO. Essentially, the defendant could ask the court that issued the restraining order for a restraining order -- of the restraining order.

Ultimately, one way or another, this case ends up at the Supreme Court. Other cases are pending throughout the country, and the odds are that there will be a serious split among the federal appellate courts, one that can only be resolved by the high court.

That same court, of course, is currently composed of eight members and capable of a 4-4 split. That's where it gets strange. When cases tie at the Supreme Court, then the appellate court's decision stands.

In this case, that could take the country right back to where it started, which by then might be legal chaos.

*Reza Aslan is the author of "Zealot: The Life and Times of Jesus of Nazareth" and the host of CNN's new original series " Believer With Reza Aslan ," which premieres at 10 p.m. ET March 5. The views expressed are his own.

(CNN) It's been nearly a week since a self-described fan of Donald Trump walked into a mosque in Quebec City and opened fire, killing six worshipers . The President has, at the time of writing, yet to publicly acknowledge the massacre , let alone offer any public words of condolence.

Thus far, the only mention of the tragedy by the White House has been by Trump's Press Secretary, Sean Spicer, who, in a mind-boggling display of disinformation, called it "a terrible reminder of why we must remain vigilant and why the President is taking steps to be proactive instead of reactive when it comes to our nation's safety and security."

Spicer's statement left the press corps baffled. He seemed to be suggesting that a far-right, ultra-nationalist, white supremacist, radicalized by social media into murdering Muslims, somehow proved Trump's position on the need to focus on the threat of Islamic terrorism.

As Philip Bump of the Washington Post put it : "The clear implication was that the incident in Quebec proved that his actions on terrorism and immigration were necessary, though it's not clear how that is the case."

Well, we now have some sense as to why the White House has not only been silent about the Quebec City massacre, but has used it to advance what the New York Times calls a "deeply suspicious view of Islam" indicative of a troubling "strain of anti-Islamic theorizing."

An exclusive report by Reuters suggests the White House is planning to "revamp and rename a US government program designed to counter all violent ideologies so that it focuses solely on Islamist extremism." According to Reuters, the program, "Countering Violent Extremism" will be renamed "Countering Islamic Extremism" or "Countering Radical Islamic Extremism," and will reportedly "no longer target groups such as white supremacists" who have been responsible for the vast majority of terrorist attacks on American soil in the last 15 years. In Trump's world, it seems, the only extremism that matters is Islamic extremism.

But let's pretend, for a moment, that facts actually matter, especially when it comes to the safety of American citizens. Here are the facts about terrorism in the United States:

Americans are almost seven times as likely to be killed by a white extremist than by an Islamic one, according to one study.

Citing a 2013 study, the New York Times notes: "Right-wing extremists averaged 337 attacks per year in the decade after 9/11, causing a total of 254 fatalities."

According to the Anti-Defamation League, "domestic extremist killers" killed more people in 2015 than any other year since Oklahoma City in 1995 (In fact, here is a list of radical right wing terrorist plots, conspiracies and attacks since 1995).

These facts explain why, according to the Triangle Center on Terrorism and Homeland Security , "law enforcement agencies in the United States consider anti-government violent extremists, not radicalized Muslims, to be the most severe threat of political violence that they face."

Indeed, in a survey the New York Times conducted in 2015, "74% of law enforcement agencies reported anti-government extremism as one of the top three terrorist threats in their jurisdiction."

So, considering the facts, why might the White House choose to stop targeting what is almost unanimously considered to be the gravest domestic terrorist threat to Americans and to focus instead solely on Islamic terrorism? The answer is simple: Trump is playing to an influential part of his constituency. After all, these people form the radical core of his political support. They are the people who helped put him in the White House.

Just ask Andrew Anglin , a 32-year-old skinhead and publisher of the Neo-Nazi site Daily Stormer, who urged his readers to "do whatever they can to make Donald Trump President."

Or listen to the white nationalist Kevin MacDonald, who praised Trump for "saying what White Americans have been actually thinking for a very long time."

Or read the white nationalist website American Renaissance, which hailed Trump as "the last hope for a president who would be good for white people."

Trump didn't just become the white nationalist candidate because his positions reflected their ideology. He became their candidate because, as Mother Jones notes , "he amplified their message." As one member of the Ku Klux Klan told the magazine, "the success of the Trump campaign just proves that our views resonate with millions."

No wonder there have been such celebrations among these groups. One user on the white nationalist site Storm Front wrote this in response to Trump's order: "If we keep having days like this, we might see the end of forced integration during the Trump Presidency."

Simply put, by promising to no longer focus on white supremacist, anti-government, and right-wing extremist groups, President Trump is doing what most politicians do after being elected: he is taking care of his own.

*Story highlights David Boaz: No company wants to annoy the president of the United States

So when big companies take on Trump so openly, we know they must view his policies as a danger to their operations, Boaz says

David Boaz is executive vice president of the Cato Institute and author of "The Libertarian Mind." The views expressed are his own.

(CNN) President Donald Trump has tried to court executives of technology companies. Before he even took office, he hosted the heads of such companies as Google, Amazon, Microsoft, Facebook and Tesla at Trump Tower.

David Boaz

But now his policies on trade and immigration are generating strong pushback from the tech industry. Silicon Valley executives sharply criticized Trump's executive order temporarily barring entry from nationals of seven Muslim-majority countries. Under public pressure, Uber founder Travis Kalanick left Trump's business advisory council , and competitor Lyft has reportedly pulled its ads from Breitbart , a website formerly led by Trump strategist Steve Bannon. Several firms and executives also announced millions of dollars in donations to the ACLU to fight the order and to immigrant aid organizations.

No company wants to annoy the president of the United States, especially one who gleefully denounces firms and executives and threatens to use his power to hurt them. So when big companies take on Trump so openly, we know they must view his policies as a real danger to their operations.

In an industry desperate to find engineering talent, Silicon Valley executives may also be particularly sensitive to their employees' generally liberal views on social issues such as abortion, gay rights and immigration. They know that skilled employees want to work for a company that shares their values.

Immigrants have been crucial to the development of the technology industry in the past 50 years, from Andy Grove and An Wang in the early years, to Satya Nadella of Microsoft, Sergey Brin and Sundar Pichai of Google, Pierre Omidyar of eBay and Omid Kordestani of Twitter. Not to mention Apple founder Steve Jobs, the son of a Syrian immigrant.

Read More

*Nic Robertson is CNN's International Diplomatic Editor. The opinions expressed in this article belong to the author

(CNN) Gathering in Malta for a meeting of the EU Council, the leaders of the EU member states would be forgiven for wondering how many more such gatherings they'll attend.

The unspoken question: is the world on the verge of an historic power pivot -- one pushed by President Trump that re-shapes world order, diminishes the EU, and enables others like Russia?

Britain edged closer to Brexit this week, with members of the British parliament voting in favor of Prime Minister Theresa May triggering article 50.

In Malta, she is already an outsider, invited to some meetings, but not all. She won't join the 27 other EU leaders when they discuss the comments made by Donald Tusk, President of the European Council, about Trump: that the new US President is a "threat" to European order.

So far Trump has backed Brexit, been ambivalent at best about the EU and accused Germany of using the EU to steal American business.

JUST WATCHED Theresa May faces opposition over Trump Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Theresa May faces opposition over Trump 02:37

The British Prime Minister hitched her political wagon to Donald Trump's fortunes a week ago. Kudos back home was rapidly replaced with rancor, as the Trump administration's so-called "Muslim ban" was revealed hours later.

Most European leaders are repulsed by Trump's decree suspending all refugee admission for 120 days, and his travel ban on anyone from seven named Muslim-majority countries. But this barely scratches the surface of their deeper fears.

That Trump took this decision in semi-secrecy without any apparent input from key senior staff from the State, Defense, Homeland Security and Justice departments is a bad sign of what's to come.

Trump's "America First" rhetoric -- branded by an aggressive fast track to unilateralism -- threatens a rapid reshaping of global diplomacy: witness National Security Adviser Michael Flynn's throwing down a red line against Iran and Trump's tweet, declaring that Iran had been put "on notice".

Secrecy and spats

Running past the reflecting pool in Washington DC's iconic National Mall last week, I was struck by its murky green waters. The winter clouds had robbed it of its reassuring serenity, but it was the absence of its clarity that I found most unsettling.

Only a few weeks earlier, these waters had provided the backdrop to history unfolding, as they do every four years during the reassuring spectacle of the peaceful transition of power. Yet this time, the words that fell on upon its surface were darker: President Trump heralding his vision of "America First".

JUST WATCHED Trump takes on world: Tensions rise with allies Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump takes on world: Tensions rise with allies 03:18

What is currently unsettling European capitals and others around the world is Trump's style. Not just the Twitter spat with Mexico's President, not just his apparently brusque style with Australia's Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull , but his unconventional secrecy.

In rolling out his apparently haphazard and ill-conceived travel ban, Trump has put a match to an accumulation of tinder-dry worries, grown in the run up to his presidency. What he has done is the diplomatic equivalent of setting the school on fire while bunking off to smoke behind the bike shed.

Setting aside the obvious problems with Trump's travel ban -- that Americans are statistically more likely to be killed by a child with an automatic weapon or falling out of bed than by a refugee, that it flies in the face of all the successful counter-terrorism tactics honed by US and its allies in recent decades -- it is the insidious nature of the decision making and crafting of the decree that is troubling America's traditional allies.

Trump's team was smart enough to get him elected and is smart enough to have gamed out some of the repercussions.

Fanning the flames

So why create so much turmoil and uncertainty?

Is Trump's inner politburo, the one often surrounding him as he launches his decrees, afraid that their project will be stopped? Are they afraid that its flaws will be found out? Or is it that they do have a grand plan, privy only to the most-trusted members of the President's inner circle?

The old adage of no smoke without a fire raises fears as to what other secrets is Trump keeping, and what his core trusted advisers are planning.

JUST WATCHED Brexit voters react to Trump's travel ban Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Brexit voters react to Trump's travel ban 02:49

In Malta, the members of the EU Council fear that the Muslim-oriented travel ban will fan flames already licking the central plank of the European project: open borders.

Unlike in the US, the danger of ISIS exploiting the refugee ban to gain entry to the continent is a major security concern. His policy enables populist nationalists like UKIP's Nigel Farage, France's Marine Le Pen, Holland's Geert Wilders and Germany's AfD, who all want to bring the EU down.

The reality for them is now very clear: Trumps apparent ambivalence to EU is a chimera for his hostility toward it.

So what happens behind the White House bike shed next is a worry.

JUST WATCHED Marine Le Pen defends Trump's travel ban Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Marine Le Pen defends Trump's travel ban 00:54

A secretive plan to embrace Putin above the heads and advice of most European leaders would not just add further distance between Brussels and Washington, but ignite another smoldering ember of European contention: sanctions over Ukraine.

Some of Putin's European allies have been calling for an end to this policy, as it hurts them too. Putin himself is only too happy to see America's historic European allies squabble and weaken.

If it comes -- and the Kremlin's fulsome and all but effusive read out of Putin phone conversation with Trump indicates that it could -- it will become a matter of urgency for EU leaders to put differences behind them.

If this were Trump's next move, Tusk could be forgiven for thinking Europe does indeed face an existential threat. Europe's experience would become a fast-learned object lesson for other capitals around the world.

America First is more than a battle of ideals; it is a vision of a new world order that places the US dollar ahead of all else.

Only Trump's inner circle currently knows how far he is willing to go to achieve this.

*Peter Bergen is CNN's national security analyst, a vice president at New America and a professor of practice at Arizona State University. He is the author of " United States of Jihad: Investigating America's Homegrown Terrorists ."

(CNN) The SEAL Team 6 raid in Yemen on Sunday that killed 14 al Qaeda fighters and 10 civilians has raised questions about the approach President Donald Trump will take to fighting terrorism.

On the plus side of the ledger, an al Qaeda leader was killed during the raid along with 13 other al Qaeda fighters. Intelligence was also recovered at the scene, which could prove useful.

On the negative side of the ledger, the SEALS went into a heavily fortified and well-defended al Qaeda complex and suffered casualties.

The raid resulted in the death of US Navy SEAL Chief Petty Officer William "Ryan" Owens.

White House press secretary Sean Spicer said Thursday, "It's hard to ever call something a complete success, when you have the loss of life or people injured," but concluded, "It is a successful operation by all standards."

Three US service members were also wounded and a $70 million Osprey helicopter that took a "hard landing" was destroyed.

According to medics at the scene, 10 civilians were also killed , including women and children.

Initially, the US military said there were no civilian casualties.

On Wednesday US Central Command, or CENTCOM, acknowledged the raid likely resulted in civilian casualties, including children. The speed with which this admission was made was unusually swift.

The raid has also angered the Yemeni government.

So, the first, big, obvious question is: What was the rush to mount the raid?

In the past, Joint Special Operations Command, or JSOC, of which SEAL Team 6 is a key component, has only launched ground raids in Yemen when the lives of hostages held by al Qaeda seemed at risk.

Indeed, the Trump-authorized raid was only the third ground operation that JSOC has carried out in Yemen.

There is good reason for that. Yemen is in the grip of a brutal civil war and pretty much every adult male is armed with an AK-47.

Ground operations are inherently very risky in Yemen. The two previous JSOC raids in Yemen were both in 2014. In the first operation, eight Yemeni, Saudi and Ethiopian hostages were freed and seven al Qaeda militants were killed.

In the second raid, Luke Somers, an American photojournalist, and South African citizen Pierre Korkie were both killed during the JSOC rescue attempt.

The Trump-authorized raid had been in the planning stages for months under President Obama, but Obama didn't authorize the raid because the first moonless night in Yemen came on January 28 after he was out of office.

Second question: Should the Trump team have waited for the next moonless night in Yemen, which falls on February 26 and gathered more intelligence on the target in the interim?

The third question: Was the Trump administration aware of the substantial number of civilians at the target? If not, why not? And if so, why did the raid proceed?

Final question: CNN's Jim Scuitto reported that Stephen Bannon, Trump's top policy strategist, and Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner were both present at the dinner where the decision to authorize the Yemen JSOC strike was weighed with President Trump.

Isn't the presence of Bannon and Kushner at this dinner more than slightly strange? Neither have any relevant expertise or experience. It's not even a given that they are "cleared" for discussions about JSOC's operations, which are among the most tightly "compartmented" of the United States' secrets.

Also at the dinner were US Secretary of Defense James Mattis, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs Gen. Joseph Dunford and Michael Flynn, Trump's national security adviser who played a key role in JSOC when he was stationed in Iraq during the Bush administration.

When President Obama was planning the raid in Pakistan that killed Osama bin Laden in 2011, his top policy and political advisers Valerie Jarrett and David Axelrod and others who had no "need to know" and didn't have the requisite clearances were not included in discussions about the operation that went on at the White House over the course of nine months.

By contrast, will Bannon and Kushner participate in the key national security decisions of the Trump administration? We already have a partial answer to this question, which is Trump's decision announced on Monday to give Bannon a seat on the National Security Council's Principals Committee.

*Aaron David Miller is a vice president and distinguished scholar at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and author of "The End of Greatness: Why America Can't Have (and Doesn't Want) Another Great President." Miller was a Middle East negotiator in Democratic and Republican administrations. Follow him @aarondmiller2. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his.

(CNN) Addressing employees at his new home in the State Department's Foggy Bottom headquarters on Thursday, newly-installed Secretary of State Rex Tillerson sounded anything but foggy.

Donald Trump's "unconventional" approach to the presidency, and the White House's seeming message to employees that they can accept the executive order on immigration or leave, had meant that Tillerson was taking charge of a frustrated and demoralized workforce. But while one speech isn't going to transform the mood, Tillerson's introduction might have left them feeling at least a little less downbeat.

I've worked for a number of secretaries of state, and this was one of the best introductory presentations I can recall, particularly under the circumstances. Tillerson was principled, well-informed, modest and witty -- part CEO (committed to everyone from mailroom to boardroom) and part life coach (pushing themes such as inclusivity, respect and honesty).

Still, important questions remain, not least how effectively Tillerson can operate in an administration that prides itself on disruption and bending -- if not outright breaking -- the conventional laws of diplomacy and diplomatic practice.

How will Tillerson deal with the President?

This might be the biggest question mark of all. Former Secretary of State James Baker famously quipped that he was the president's man at the State Department, not the State Department's man at the White House. Baker and George H. W. Bush were close personal friends. This, combined with his natural negotiating skills, made Baker the most effective secretary of state since Henry Kissinger.

Tillerson, though, will be operating in a cruel environment. Perhaps not the "Apprentice," but probably "Shark Tank." If he alienates the President (who must empower him at home and abroad), he'll be marginalized. Yet he must also try to defend -- based on his high road speech Thursday -- the interests of his department. And that means not just pushing for resources, but for policies that reflect the expertise and judgment of State's foreign policy professionals.

Where will foreign policy be made?

Power over national security and foreign policy always resides in the White House. The question is how will Tillerson factor into the hierarchy of those who compete for the President's attention and are seeking to shape his views. And right now, with the obvious caveat that this could change down the line, Tillerson has two competitors -- and the President himself -- to contend with.

First, there are those tweets, phone calls and off the cuff remarks, all of which constitute a rapidly moving target for Tillerson to negotiate.

Second, there is now a strong national security adviser, Mike Flynn, who is emerging as a force in foreign policy. Flynn doesn't look like being a behind-the scenes adviser, either, but a public persona -- a point underscored by his personal warning to Iran over its latest ballistic missile test.

Third is Steve Bannon, who is turning out to be far more than just a strategic communications adviser , and is instead reportedly shaping the substance of policy initiatives, most notably on immigration.

Both Flynn and Bannon are personally and physically closer to the President than Tillerson, and in Washington, proximity and trust are critically important to shaping policy.

So, is it too late for Tillerson?

Probably not. But the last two weeks have seen a slew of policy initiatives setting the tone and substance for America's image and interests in the world. The administration seems to have begun drawing a red line for Iran that could easily lead to an escalatory cycle, while the executive order on immigration has already fundamentally altered US policy.

Meanwhile, the President appears to have gotten into testy exchanges with Mexico and Australia , while also sending out clear signals about how he wants to deal with Russia in Syria.

All this seems to be very much the President's own foreign policy. The question is how much latitude Tillerson will have to try to reshape some of it. Of course, Trump's views could be shaped by Tillerson's personality and the compelling realities presented by foreign policy professionals. But right now, the secretary of state is in the unenviable position of playing catch up.

Can Tillerson find allies?

I've written before about the importance of allying with the secretary of defense, and that's now more important than ever. The President appears to have extraordinary regard for Jim Mattis -- even publicly declaring that on an issue such as torture, Mattis would overrule him. Combine that with the fact that on so many foreign policy issues -- at least on paper -- State and Defense will be players, and it is clear why Tillerson will need to team up with his Pentagon counterpart.

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

An alliance with Mattis could mean an effective reality check for the President, and together they might have the ability to shape some of his views, temper impulsive decisions and provide the judgment and prudence critical to sound policymaking. But if Tillerson tries to fly solo, or finds himself at odds with Mattis, it will be difficult to provide alternate and compelling arguments when the needs arises.

Ultimately, Tillerson can't pick a fight -- with or without allies -- on every issue. To succeed, he'll have to identify a few key areas that he wants to own and manage, and try to secure the authority to do so. And while the reality is that it will be hard in this administration to make the Department of State the dominant voice in the conceptualization of US foreign policy, there is plenty of time for Tillerson to secure influence.

If Tillerson is prepared to stand up and fight for a few issues head on, and be back-door smart on others, he might just have a chance to emerge as a key adviser to the President on foreign policy. That would likely be a very good thing for Mr. Trump -- and America, too.

*(CNN) President Donald Trump sends shock waves through the nation, around the world, every day of the week, and sometimes this is bluster that doesn't actually threaten America's deepest values.

On Thursday, however, he went a large step too far by suggesting to a group of religious leaders that he would "destroy" the Johnson Amendment , which in 1954 prohibited churches and other tax-exempt organizations from supporting one party or candidate over another.

By violating this law, they could lose their tax exemptions , and that loss would be crushing for most churches and charities.

Do we really want to live in a country where religious organizations can benefit from special tax status and use the donations they receive for partisan purposes, especially in support of religious programs that we find repugnant or against our own faith values?

In the mid-1950s , the Johnson Amendment aroused little concern. It was, after all, signed into law by President Dwight Eisenhower, a much-admired Republican, although it was named for senator (later President) Lyndon B. Johnson, a feisty Democrat.

That c hurches get tax emptions is a questionable idea in itself, and many good reasons for taxing churches (especially church property) and not exempting contributions to them exist. "It's a sensitive topic," says Robert W. Wood in Forbes, "inviting questions about the separation of church and state."

Let's dig into American history for a moment. One hears a lot about the " separation of church and state ," and that's a critical divide, one that was implicit in the US Constitution. The phrase itself was used by Thomas Jefferson, and it's not explicitly written into the First Amendment, although it's implied.

Indeed, the phrase itself was employed by the Supreme Court in 1878 and often used in subsequent years. No self-respecting constitutional scholar doubts that one of the hugely important matters for our Founding Fathers was to maintain this border, as many of our forebears had fled Europe because of religious oppression.

JUST WATCHED Trump: I will destroy Johnson amendment Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: I will destroy Johnson amendment 00:45

One sees this separation discussed again and again, as in Everson v. Board of Education in 1947, which applied the Establishment Clause from the Bill of Rights to local and state governments. The First Amendment clearly states that "Congress shall make no laws respecting an establishment of religion.

This means that religions -- all religions -- stay on their side of the fence, while the local, state, and federal government must remain secular.

Government neutrality on religious questions is something that makes us Americans.

It's important for the government never to side with one religion over another. In 2004, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor (appointed by Ronald Reagan) sent a strong message to the legal community on this point, saying that governmental endorsements of religion suggest that some groups of religious persons are "favored members of the political community" while those who don't follow this faith are "outsiders, [or] not full members of the political community."

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

This is such a powerful statement, and -- as a Christian myself who wants full freedom to practice my faith exactly as I believe I have the duty and right to do so -- I certainly don't want to see the Johnson Amendment in any way challenged.

In my view, it's not in the interest of any Christian -- even the evangelicals who support Trump -- to see the Johnson Amendment or the separation of church and state eroded, and it's certainly not in the majority interest. Trump naturally wants to stand behind the evangelicals who supported him in his recent election

But he doesn't understand that there is a long and intricate history about the practice of religion in the United States, and that religious freedom actually depends on keeping the lines of separation bold and clear.

*David A. Andelman, editor emeritus of World Policy Journal and member of the board of contributors of USA Today, is the author of " A Shattered Peace: Versailles 1919 and the Price We Pay Today ." Follow him on Twitter @DavidAndelman . The views expressed in this commentary are his own.

(CNN) When President Trump's national security adviser, Michael Flynn, arrived unannounced in the White House press room Wednesday and announced that "we're officially putting Iran on notice" -- a position the President clearly agrees with, as he made clear in a tweet Thurday morning -- after its latest ballistic missile test and several attacks by Houthi rebels in Yemen, the most immediate question was this: or else what?

Over the past week, the President has burned a whole lot of his diplomatic capital.

Gen. Flynn said the US, or at least he, was particularly upset because Iran was "threatening friends and allies in the region." The bigger question is whether the US really has very many friends and allies in that region or anywhere else. And without anyone standing shoulder-to-shoulder with President Trump, could this be read as a pretty empty threat?

Let's examine just what kind of room for bluster and challenge this administration might muster. The President could make good on yet another of his campaign promises and "tear up" the Iranian nuclear deal. The problem is that this is not simply a pact between the US and Iran, but rather between Iran and the five permanent members of the UN Security Council (Britain, France, Russia, China, and the US) plus Germany. None of these other countries seems prepared right now to rush with the US into such an impetuous and ill-conceived action.

The other possible action the US could take would be to "snap back" a broad array of economic sanctions against Iran, the removal of which was the carrot for Tehran to agree to dismantle its nuclear weapons program.

With Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu set to pay Trump a visit at the White House in two weeks and with Israel eager to see the treaty removed and sanctions reinstalled, this could be an appealing move.

It's not so attractive to the rest of the world, however.

Europe has embraced both the lifting of sanctions and the freeze of the Iranian nuclear program. But at the same time, Europe has also embraced a continuation of another series of sanctions on Russia for its actions in Ukraine and the seizure of Crimea.

Due to be renewed in July, President Trump has thus far failed to endorse any renewal. So, the recent step-up in hostilities over the past week by pro-Russian elements in eastern Ukraine could be seen as a test as to whether President Putin might be able to drive a further wedge between Western European leaders and the Trump administration.

Instead, there's a broad and growing sense that Trump is becoming the third rail of international diplomacy. What European leader is going to embrace Trump or his ideas if they're only going to get gob-smacked like British Prime Minister Theresa May, who invited the President to visit the Queen, only to see him turn around as soon as she's airborne and come out with his immigration ban? By the time she arrived back in London, following a brief stop in Turkey, some 1.6 million Brits had signed a petition demanding that her invitation on behalf of the Queen be rescinded and Parliament scheduled a debate on the issues for February 20. (To be fair, 114,000 signed another petition supporting Trump.)

JUST WATCHED Iran: The biggest issue for the next US president? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Iran: The biggest issue for the next US president? 00:47

At the same time, broad parts of the world are holding their breath to see where Trump might even expand his list of pariah nations whose tired, poor and huddled masses will have to look for other shores where they might breathe free.

There are, after all, a host of non-banned countries with large Muslim populations. India, for one, is calculating that Muslim-dominated Pakistan will be impacted next , while Pakistan sees the Trump immigration program as a potential tilt by the US toward India.

Even such a perception is a dangerous idea, especially if Pakistan reacts by stepping up aid and comfort it has long given to Taliban forces in Afghanistan and its own nearby border provinces. The US, of course, accounts for at least 9,800 of the 13,000 NATO troops that remain in Afghanistan.

In Europe, France, Britain and Belgium -- each with longstanding colonial-era ties with Muslim-dominated countries in Africa and the Middle East -- are all worried that some of these might be next on Trump's immigration ban list.

More critically, of course, Europe, but especially Germany, has been ground zero for the tsunami of refugees pouring out of the Middle East and that Trump has now banned. German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who faces her own fraught battle for re-election later this year, has not minced words. "I have made it clear once again that the fight against terrorism does not justify a general advance against certain countries and people with a certain belief," Merkel said on Tuesday , referring directly to Trump.

Finally, Trump used a telephone call with the Prime Minister of Australia last weekend to build another wall -- with one of America's most reliable allies -- perhaps pushing it even more firmly into the arms of China, with whom it already enjoys a warm and profitable trading relationship.

Trump terminated the call early after an acrimonious exchange when Malcolm Turnbull demanded that the United States honor a pledge by President Obama to accept 1,100 Iranian and Iraqi refugees that Australia had parked on the South Pacific island of Nauru. Then the President rounded out the insult by tweeting about the "dumb deal."

So, with all these bridges burned, it's worth reflecting, just what political capital can Gen. Flynn and President Trump muster to confront Iran with threats that, to the mullahs in Tehran, can only appear empty? Broad swaths of his own State Department -- at least 1,000 officials in American embassies from Jakarta to Nairobi, across Europe and back to Washington -- have already signed a letter condemning his immigration ban and by implication questioned his entire world view -- one that will in no way make America or the world safer.

Oh, and incidentally, it might be useful at the same time if President Trump were to get his enemies straight. Russia and Iran are both fighting ISIS -- which the President has identified as America's biggest existential threat. So if that's still the case, why pick a fight with a country that should be your ally in this battle?

On so many fronts, Trump has already dug himself into a deep hole. It's time he stopped digging.

*Jeffrey Pojanowski, professor of law at the University of Notre Dame Law School, teaches and writes in the areas of administrative law, jurisprudence, legal interpretation and torts. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his.

(CNN) Much about Judge Neil Gorsuch's nomination and confirmation process will be familiar. The American public will get the standard pitches about constitutional interpretation, civil rights, federalism, precedent and the rule of law. But we live in interesting times, and Gorsuch's nomination comes with a curveball -- namely his skepticism of the longstanding doctrine that courts should defer to the executive branch's interpretations of law.

Gorsuch has favored an approach to administrative law that would limit President Donald Trump's discretion and power.

Let me explain. Officials who answer to the president, such as the attorney general or the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, have to interpret law all the time. When agencies issue regulations or decide whether parties have violated federal regulatory law, they often must decide what federal statutes have to say on the matter. And when parties disagree with these agencies' decisions, they can challenge them in court.

A judicial doctrine known as Chevron deference, named after a 1984 Supreme Court case on the matter, governs how strictly a court should review an agency's interpretation of law.

Under the Chevron doctrine, if the court finds the statute clear, the judicial interpretation governs regardless of the agency's opinion.

Crucially, however, if the court finds the statute unclear, it must defer to the agency's interpretation so long as it as a reasonable one -- even if that reading is not what the court would have adopted on its own. The standard justification for Chevron deference is that unclear legal cases turn on policy choices. Therefore, administrative agencies with political accountability and technical expertise should make those choices, not unelected federal judges.

As a practical matter, Chevron deference can shift substantial power to the executive branch, and therefore the president. The federal statutes that agencies administer are often not crystal clear, and Chevron dictates that close calls go to the government. This includes changes to previous administrations' interpretations of those statutes. So long as the new interpretation is also reasonable, Chevron teaches that the agency can depart from past practice.

Unlike lots of other areas of the law, debate over Chevron deference is not a neatly partisan affair. In fact, legal conservatives differ over whether it is a good idea.

Enter Gorsuch: In 2016, he took the unusual step of issuing a separate concurring opinion criticizing Chevron. (As an intermediate appellate judge, he could do little more than complain about the test the Supreme Court makes him apply.)

Chevron deference, he argued, requires courts to depart from their judicial duty to say what they believe the law is. This, Gorsuch contended, confounds the separation of powers and allows "politicized decisionmakers to decide cases and controversies about the meaning of existing laws."

Of particular interest these days is the fact that Gorsuch happened to offer this criticism in a case where the government sought deference to its decision to exclude an immigrant from the United States. There, the government sought to apply retroactively its new rule that an immigrant who entered the country unlawfully had to wait 10 years before he or she could apply for lawful status.

The government's interpretation disagreed with judicial precedent holding that the law allowed re-entry sooner. Gorsuch bristled at the notion of government lawyers brushing aside judicial decisions, and further held that the government could not reach back and apply its new restrictive rule to conduct that occurred before that rule became final.

Gorsuch does not speak for all conservative legal thinkers, but he represents a camp that pushes back against the notion that hard questions of legal interpretation boil down to policy preferences -- and thus should be decided by executive agencies rather than judges. Right or wrong, such a rejection of Chevron could tilt the balance of power from the executive branch to the judiciary.

Think of Chief Justice John Roberts' anti-Chevron holding in King v. Burwell that the Supreme Court -- and not the IRS commissioner -- decides whether federal exchanges operating in the states were valid under the Affordable Care Act. The Roberts court upheld the exchanges, but not because the interpretive tie went to the government base runner. Without Chevron, the judicial umpire decides.

Imagine also Trump administration decisions to adopt aggressively restrictive interpretations of the immigration laws or to reverse Obama-era readings of environmental or labor statutes. In a world without Chevron, the new administration offering a plausible interpretation cannot win if the courts think the best reading of the legislation goes the other way.

All this adds a twist to Gorsuch's nomination. In picking him, Trump chose the short-lister most likely to bolster the judiciary's claims over the executive branch in the power to say what the nation's regulatory law is. Presently, Justice Clarence Thomas is the only active member of the Supreme Court to call for a reversal of Chevron, although the chief justice and Justices Samuel Alito and Stephen Breyer at times have shown some interest in domesticating the doctrine. It would go too far to say that Gorsuch would shift the tide on judicial deference, but he would add another thoughtful voice to the skeptical chorus.

In getting his way on the nomination, Trump may be less likely to get his way on the law. At a time when people across the ideological spectrum have concerns about the stability and rule of law, Gorsuch's jurisprudence may come as a welcome relief.

*Jon D. Michaels is a professor of law at the UCLA School of Law, where he teaches and writes about administrative law, national security law, privatization, and the separation of powers. His book, "Constitutional Coup: Privatization's Threat to the American Republic," is forthcoming from Harvard University Press. Unless otherwise noted below, facts reflect research for his scholarly projects. The views expressed in this commentary are his own.

(CNN) In the immediate aftermath of President Donald Trump's surprising election, I received a number of calls and emails from students and former students, all Democrats to be sure. Should they accept jobs in the Justice Department? Should they remain in their posts in the Environmental Protection Agency? My answer was an unwavering yes. One serves regardless of the president's politics.

In a world in which the work of the federal government continues apace, I stand by my advice.

But increasingly, that world no longer reflects our reality. In the first 12 days of the Trump presidency, our constitutional reality has been shaken to its very core. We now have a right-wing blogger turned chief political strategist serving as a principal on the all-important National Security Council. (His elevation was coupled with the corresponding downgrading of the roles played by the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the director of national intelligence.)

We have gag orders on federal employees. We have the go-ahead to commence construction on the so-called wall. We have smarmy salesman-like promises to cut two rules for every one new regulation we enact, and, of course, we have a legally doubtful immigration and refugee policy composed with almost no input from the Departments of State, Defense, Justice, and Homeland Security.

Sadly, I could go on ... and on. Those of us frustrated by the new administration's efforts may reflexively turn to the classic separation of powers, expecting Congress to work its Madisonian magic of checks and balances. But with both houses of Congress controlled by President Trump's party -- and with many appeals to the courts, particularly those relating to the President's myriad financial conflicts, being non-justiciable -- we better start looking elsewhere.

Fortunately, we don't have to look too far or long. Already we are seeing the cobwebs dusted off of our secondary systems of separating and checking power that are, in many ways, independent forces in American law and politics: state and local governments, federal bureaucracy itself, and most crucially, civil society.

Meanwhile, for over 100 years, the hallmark of our federal civil service has been its political independence from those in the White House. We now see federal bureaucrats engaging in creative and persuasive acts of what we may call civil (service) disobedience. Specifically:

After the White House placed gag orders on officials in the EPA and the Departments of Agriculture, Interior, Health and Human Services, the National Park Service stepped into the vacuum, tweeting perhaps inconvenient facts about the reality of climate change and drawing similarly inconvenient analogies between Japanese-American internment and the administration's new immigration policy. Soon, those accounts were likewise disabled. But in an elaborate game of whack-a-mole, dozens of "rogue twitter" accounts loosely affiliated with the EPA, NASA, the Forest Service, and other agencies have popped up, attracting millions of followers and spawning countless copycats, all of whom are quite literally speaking truth to power.

Foreign Service officers in the State Department are busily circulating a formal dissent cable opposing the immigration ban on public policy grounds.The formal dissent cable is a venerable, though rarely resorted to, means of expressing rank-and-file opposition. At last reporting, the cable has over 1,000 signatures and has taken on a life and energy of its own. The challenge has not been in getting signatures but rather in recording all the signatures from the many, many officials stationed around the world who want their names added.

Acting Attorney General Sally Yates directed Justice Department lawyers not to defend the President's immigration order before the federal courts, a staggering admission that the order is beyond the legal pale. Though summarily (and lawfully) fired, Yates made clear her principled objection to a dangerous and, in her considered judgment, legally unsupportable directive.

And let's not forget that civil society is yet a third independent force in American law and politics. Despite bipartisan railing against "big government ," our constitutional order has always been -- and remains -- one with a large, vibrant, and powerful private sector. One of the virtues of a strong and independent civil society is its ability to challenge government policy, to voice opposing positions, and to peaceably assemble and protest. Already, one remarkable display of economic sacrifice and communal solidarity took the form of an impromptu taxi strike at New York's JFK airport , where many travelers covered by the President's immigration order were detained. At roughly the same time, Starbucks pledged it would hire 10,000 refugees over the next five years . Here we have civil society, struggling cabbies and wealthy corporations alike, mounting formidable challenges to the administration's vision of America.

To be clear, there are problems with mobilizing these secondary mechanisms of restraint on federal executive power. We need to be careful what we wish for, or even condone. Why should California effectively get to dictate national environmental policy? Why should we tolerate bureaucratic insubordination? And why shouldn't cabbies and coffee makers mind their own business, and do their jobs as common carriers and corporate fiduciaries, respectively?

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

Indeed, under periods of normal constitutional politics, we ought to take a dimmer view of these mobilizations. Presidential administrations, even ones we vehemently disagree with, should be allowed to implement their preferred policies. Critiques from those within and outside government should be vigorous but constructive, of the loyal opposition variety. And, by and large, throughout our history, they largely have been. But we are, many fear, rapidly deviating from the normal. In under two weeks, we've seen a blatant disregard for the rule of law; an almost gleeful hostility to a free press; a willingness to suppress scientific truths; an eagerness to politicize our national security; and an indifference to the constitutional imperatives and popular calls for presidential divestment.

Such circumstances may well necessitate calling forth our secondary systems of separating and checking -- treating them as part of a constitutional fail-safe to be used only in exceptionally rare, "in case of emergency, break glass," moments.

*Rob Crilly is a British journalist living in New York. He was The Telegraph's Afghanistan and Pakistan correspondent and was previously the East Africa correspondent for The Times of London. The opinions in this article are those of the author.

(CNN) Donald Trump's management style is clear to anyone who has watched his TV show "The Apprentice."

Line up a bunch of contenders in front of you; set their hair on fire; let them squabble; run around and create mayhem.

Once things have reached the point at which the viewer is watching from between their fingers -- and only then -- step in as the arbiter in chief, the man with the answers, the all-powerful figure who brings the whole pitiful thing to a conclusion.

This is how Trump ran his businesses, his TV show and his campaign . But this week he has begun to find out what happens when the myth comes to Washington, with its competing power centers, lawyers and vested interests.

Trump's determination to win Big League is blinding him to what a victory in government looks like. Quick fire stunts that alienate allies and dent your chances will probably limit opportunities down the road.

And he has offered dithering Democrats a dangling thread for his unraveling even before all of his Cabinet nominees have made it through their Senate confirmation.

Executive orders were always going to appeal to this sort of management philosophy. So it is no surprise that even with the sort of majorities in the House and the Senate that give him the political whip hand, Trump has made rapid and ferocious use of their unilateral powers.

But by any reading, his executive order suspending the US refugee program and arrivals from seven mainly Muslim countries has been a disaster.

His White House has had to drop green card holders from the ban and more than one judge has ordered parts of the program be dropped. Grandmothers and Iraqis who served alongside American soldiers have been detained. Not good for PR.

Worse, it has exposed rifts in the administration, with key players saying they were not properly consulted, and divisions among Republicans, who say such barriers are un-American or that they detect a religious test in the decision to give Christians preferential treatment.

Democrats, who appeared listless without the leadership of an Obama or a Clinton, now fancy the fight. Not only are activists energized, but their elected representatives have begun obstructing the business of Cabinet confirmations on Capitol Hill.

It wasn't supposed to be like this.

Throughout a topsy-turvy campaign, Trump managed to offer a consistent messianic message amid the noise. If America was going to hell, then there was only one man who could mend things.

"I have joined the political arena so that the powerful can no longer beat up on people that cannot defend themselves. Nobody knows the system better than me, which is why I alone can fix it," he said at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland.

It's going to be beautiful, he bragged. It will be so easy, he boasted.

JUST WATCHED Trump refugee ban leads to 'perverse outcome' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump refugee ban leads to 'perverse outcome' 05:34

So while a bungled order and leaky insiders describing amateur hour at the White House might be entirely understandable for any president in his first week, Trump is not just any president. For him, the exploding of the myth is far more dangerous.

No wonder he brought forward the unveiling of his Supreme Court pick by two days. Trump looked glad of a showbiz diversion -- a chance to put himself back on a red carpet in prime time. And, as he named Neil Gorsuch to the bench, he restated his central manifesto.

"I am a man of my word. I will do as I say," he said. "Something that the American people have been asking for from Washington for a very, very long time"

His problem is that restating his own chosen narrative is not the same as winning back public perception.

His need to be seen as a man of his word has meant a helter-skelter rush to push through the policies he promised: rolling back Obamacare on Day One, slashing regulation, suspending refugee entry, building the wall.

Maintaining the image of getting down to business fast is coming at the expense of the other part of the deal -- that he can deliver.

The story taking hold is chaos over order, weakness over strength, division over unity.

That would be a problem for any politician. But when you have no political experience and when you have built your entire platform on a messianic appeal -- a savior myth built around the politician as strongman -- then it could very easily end in disaster.

*When Senate Democrats on the Finance Committee finally showed some grit by boycotting the vote over President Donald Trump's nominees for secretary of treasury, Steven Mnuchin, and secretary of health and human services, Tom Price -- two of the most controversial picks to come from the White House -- Republicans simply changed the rules.

Although the committee rules stipulate that there needed to be a quorum with one member from the minority party present to vote on a nominee, Chairman Orrin Hatch of Utah and the committee Republicans suspended the rules by unanimous consent. With a statement that begged for the chyron "irony alert," Hatch justified the action as a response to the "unprecedented obstruction on the part of our colleagues."

Any Democrat who has experienced the hardball tactics of the tea party era couldn't help but roll their eyes.

Throughout the presidency of Barack Obama, Republicans on Capitol Hill were willing to practice a style of ruthless, smash-mouth politics where the legislative rules are used as a brutal weapon to stop their opponents from making any progress on their agenda.

Republicans threatened to send the nation into default by refusing to raise the debt ceiling. They used the filibuster as a routine tactic. They gridlocked many of President Obama's nominees, including Supreme Court nominee Merrick Garland, who was never even allowed a hearing, let alone a vote on the Senate floor. Almost any time that President Obama asked for bipartisan support, most members of the party stood firm and voted no.

Sen. Mitch McConnell is a brilliant practitioner of procedural warfare. He understands that the rules in Congress are not simply a backdrop to the action, they are the mechanism through which partisan combat takes place. What has been striking about McConnell and his colleagues in the House and Senate is that they are willing to use the rules in the most ruthless fashion possible.

While obstruction cost Republicans in the court of public opinion -- and didn't inspire much confidence that the party knew how to govern -- the Republicans were willing to take their chances.

In their minds, the benefits that came from stopping the President's agenda and energizing party activists around a combative, fighting style would eventually pay off. They also made the bet that in the end, voters blame the President when nothing gets done in Washington, not the Congress, even if the House and Senate are in the hands of the opposition.

Now that Republicans have control of the White House as well, they are using the tools to push the President's agenda forward. Despite some important points of contention, such as on free-trade agreements, the Republican Party is remarkably united and disciplined on most other issues. They know what they want, much of which President Trump is signaling that he will deliver and they are willing to do whatever it takes within the boundaries of the rules to get it done.

For all the chaos and tumult in the Trump White House, this is a strength upon which the entire party is depending.

JUST WATCHED Sen. Hatch: Democrats 'idiots' for boycotting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sen. Hatch: Democrats 'idiots' for boycotting 01:32

With all the attention on President Trump, in many ways the real action is taking place in Congress, where they are smoothing the way for very rightward leaning appointees, demonstrating almost no resistance to the President's most controversial actions, such as the executive order on refugees, and preparing to move forward with a legislative menu of tax cuts, deregulation and higher military spending that must be making Ronald Reagan smile in his grave.

If Senate Democrats dare to filibuster the Supreme Court appointment of Neil Gorsuch , it's safe to bet that no Senate Republicans will defect from the President and the GOP will do whatever it takes to get enough Democrats from swing states to back the nominee.

It is not difficult to imagine that if there is a filibuster, Sen. McConnell would turn to Harry Reid's playbook to employ the nuclear option of jettisoning the right to endless talk altogether. Indeed, President Trump has already encouraged him to do so

So, as Senate Democrats start to make decisions about how they intend to fight this administration, they would do well to look at what Republicans achieved. They might see that even if obstruction and legislative grandstanding is ugly and turns off voters, it can be a useful tool toward larger partisan objectives.

On great matters of principle, which can include a Supreme Court nominee that stands for a set of values that they believe would move the nation in the wrong direction, the toughest legislative fight possible could be just the right elixir for mobilizing party activists -- and it could be an effective tool in forcing a president away from a particular direction.

If a party is willing to deal with the inevitable heat that comes from using roughhouse tactics, it's possible, as Republicans learned in 2016, to come out on the winning side of politics and policy. Indeed, the first serious crack in the Republican offensive has appeared, with two GOP senators, Susan Collins and Lisa Murkowski, saying they would oppose the confirmation of Betsy DeVos as education secretary.

And if Democrats are worried about the apparent hypocrisy of doing what they criticized Republicans for doing, they probably shouldn't. After all, Senate Republicans now insist that Democrats have an obligation to give Gorsuch a fair hearing, despite the obvious contradiction with how Republicans treated Garland.

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

The biggest danger, of course, is what all of this legislative warfare does to the democratic process. As both parties get deeper and deeper into the muck -- and this is something on the minds of many Democrats -- there will be growing concerns over how all this effects our ability to govern and responsibly resolve the great problems of the day.

Given that the Supreme Court has now only had eight members since Justice Antonin Scalia died last February 13, those risks are apparent to everyone in the upper chamber.

But Republicans have shown that there is a space between total destruction of the political process and old-fashioned congressional combat where Democrats have an opportunity to slow down the rapid fire activity of the White House.

Back in the 1960s, liberals like Missouri Democrat Richard Bolling discovered that the only way to fight the conservatives of the day, Southern Democratic committee chairmen who remained in office for decades, was to organize, mobilize and fight back through the rules upon which the Dixiecrats had depended to stop domestic policies like civil rights.

In short, if Democrats are going to stand any chance of stopping the transformational changes that are looming, they may well need to look much more closely at the Republicans as potential models for a path forward.

*Bruce Feiler is the author of six consecutive New York Times best-sellers, including "Walking the Bible" and "Abraham." His new book, "The First Love Story: Adam, Eve, and Us," will be published in March. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his.

(CNN) President Trump's dramatic executive order blocking Syrian refugees from the United States and suspending immigration from some Muslim-majority countries has had a tumultuous impact. Children have been separated from their parents, teachers have been kept from their schools, Christian families have been turned away from American airports. Everyone from politicians to corporate executives has denounced the move. Scores of protests erupted around the country. The scope of the outrage appears to have caught even the White House by surprise.

Yet lost in the turmoil is one critical but overlooked benefit to all this upheaval: The president's action -- and the backlash that followed -- are the biggest boon to interfaith relations in decades. The idea that thousands of people would take to the streets in impromptu, grass-roots protests to defend not their own religious traditions but those of a beleaguered minority is relatively unheard of in the long history of religion. That the religion being defended is not just any tradition, but one widely disparaged in recent years from pulpits and campaign platforms as evil incarnate makes it even more remarkable.

Just look at the signs the protesters have been carrying: "FIRST THEY CAME FOR THE MUSLIMS... THIS TIME WE SAID, 'HELL NO!'" "TODAY WE ARE ALL MUSLIM." "STOP PRETENDING YOUR ISLAMOPHOBIA IS PATRIOTISM." " JESUS WAS A REFUGEE ."

(The expression "First they came" is a reference to Martin Neimoller's famous poem famous poem about the Holocaust, with its incantation, "First they came for the Socialists," but I did nothing, then they came for the Trade Unionists, but I did nothing, then they came for the Jews.)

Lay people have not been the only ones expressing outrage. Religious leaders, precisely those people who usually stay out of such fights so as not to antagonize their own followers, have been out front and vocal . And not just the usual ones.

-- The United States Conference of Bishops lambasted the move. "We believe in assisting all, regardless of their religious beliefs," said one bishop.

-- The National Association of Evangelicals criticized any discrimination against the most vulnerable, without regard to "ethnicity, country of origin, religion, gender or gender identity."

-- The head of the Southern Baptists called on the president to affirm his commitment to protecting the downtrodden, including "Christian, Jewish, Muslim, Yazidi or other."

-- Reform Jewish leaders denounced "in the strongest terms the horrifying executive order."

-- Even deeply conservative Focus on the Family expressed cautious support for admitting any persecuted people, "even Muslims," into the United States.

It would be hard to overstate how rare this ecumenical unanimity is. Religious leaders are not used to rallying to the defense of their rivals.

One reason for this universality: Support for the vulnerable, especially refugees, is one of the foundational beliefs of biblical ideology. The edict "Love the stranger because you were a stranger once yourself" is the single most common idea in the Hebrew Bible, used 36 times. Jesus picked up and enhanced this idea, making it a central pillar of his teaching and the Christian church for the next 20 centuries.

No wonder 550 Catholics attended Mass outside the White House this week in support of refugees. As Father Jim Martin, SJ, tweeted : "If you reject the migrant and refugee, you reject Christ himself, who asked us, who implored us, who ordered us, to see him in the stranger."

So why have there been so few occasions for inter-religious cooperation? What came to be called the " interfaith movement " began in the late 19th century, largely as a way to build bridges among Protestants. Not until after World War II were Catholics and Jews added to this effort in a meaningful way. The term " Judeo-Christian " did not become popular until the 1950s. After 9/11, Muslims have been slowly included in these conversations, and the term "Abrahamic" gained widespread use.

Still, these gains have been fitful. Bitter wars in the Middle East, coupled with repeated terrorist attacks around the globe, have left even those respectful of different traditions feeling angry, confused and fearful of speaking out. Efforts toward coexistence, while much healthier than a generation ago, have stalled in recent years.

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

Ten years ago, during a visit to the Oval Office, I asked President George W. Bush, who had read my book "Abraham: A Journey to the Heart of Three Faiths" and expressed interest in religious dialogue, why he didn't organize an event at the White House. "In my experience, these things are better off not being done by the President but by the grass-roots," he told me.

The new President may have shown how true that is. By bringing overtones of religious intolerance to the White House, he has finally roused the grass-roots. For a movement in need of signature moments, the impact has the potential to be profound.

*Ruth Ben-Ghiat is a frequent contributor to CNN Opinion and a professor of history and Italian studies at New York University. Her latest book is "Italian Fascism's Empire Cinema." The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author.

(CNN) We're not even two weeks into the Trump presidency. Has your head exploded yet? If so, you're right where Donald Trump and our shadow ruler, Steve Bannon, want you to be.

The onslaught of executive orders and threatening talk, while entirely in keeping with what Trump promised during the campaign, have left Americans of many political leanings feeling overwhelmed and fearful of what may come next.

The confusion and chaos generated at the bureaucratic and individual level by Trump's most spectacular executive order -- his ban of individuals from selected predominantly Muslim countries from entering the United States -- came in part from its sudden announcement. From enforcers to the public, many were thrown off guard.

Welcome to the shock event, designed precisely to jar the political system and civil society, causing a disorientation and disruption among the public and the political class that aids the leader in consolidating his power.

Those who still refuse to take Trump seriously cite his incompetence for the rough start in office. Yet this blitzkrieg was intentional. "Get used to it. @POTUS is a man of action and impact ... Shock to the system. And he's just getting started" his counselor Kellyanne Conway tweeted Saturday.

Get used to it. @POTUS is a man of action and impact.

Promises made, promises kept.

Shock to the system.

And he's just getting started https://t.co/AoUsZWClXt  Kellyanne Conway (@KellyannePolls) January 28, 2017

As Conway implies, these first days of the Trump administration could be considered a prologue to a bigger drama, and one that reflects the thinking of Trump and Bannon alike. From their actions and pronouncements, we cannot exclude an intention to carry out a type of coup.

Many may raise their eyebrows at my use of this word, which brings to mind military juntas in faraway countries who use violence and the element of surprise to gain power. Our situation is different. Trump gained power legally but this week has provided many indications that his inner circle intends to shock or strike at the system, using the resulting spaces of chaos and flux to create a kind of government within the government: one beholden only to the chief executive.

"Strike at the enemy at a time and place or in a manner for which he is unprepared," reads one US Air Force formulation of the old military doctrine of surprise. Trump has long been an advocate of this tactic and complained various times during the campaign that our armed forces were far too transparent about their planned operations.

Yet Bannon is the mastermind of this takeover strategy as it's been adapted to the domestic realm. Well-versed in military tactics and the history of the radical left and right, Bannon has repeatedly talked about "destroying the state" in the name of securing power for "an insurgent, center-right populist movement that is virulently anti-establishment."

Besieging your targets until nothing makes any sense -- giving them no time to absorb or recover from attacks -- is a time-tested strategy in the history of war and authoritarian takeovers. One might cite what's gone on in Turkey under President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

It's now being employed at the pinnacle of American democracy. It's particularly useful in situations where the leader is vulnerable due to possible investigations, blackmails or other circumstances that close off gradualist approaches to implementing an agenda. With all the emergencies going on, who is bothered at the moment about those Trump tax returns, or even his ties to Russia?

JUST WATCHED Who is Steve Bannon? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Who is Steve Bannon? 01:25

Second is the unleashing of the political purges that authoritarians so love. Some purges are punitive (say the firing of acting Attorney General Sally Yates because she defied Trump's immigration order) and some pre-emptive (the expulsion of senior State Department staff) but the effect is to cleanse the government of troublemakers and leave a power vacuum to be filled with loyalists -- or not filled at all, for added disruption of the state bureaucracy.

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

Trump campaigned on a platform of unifying the nation, but by striking at the state he and Bannon intend to turn us against each other.

Their blitzkrieg not only throws us off balance but forces us to take sides. Do I work for Trump or leave the government? Do I issue a statement that my company disapproves of the travel ban? What will my shareholders and stakeholders think? It's no accident that the World War II language of resistance and collaboration has come back into circulation -- these are the situations authoritarians create to divide us, making it easier for them to restrict our freedoms.

*Story highlights Eric Garcetti: City dwellers the first line of defense against Trump's executive orders

People everywhere are responding in dramatic and unprecedented ways

.

Eric Garcetti is the mayor of Los Angeles and a former president of the Los Angeles City Council. The views expressed in this commentary are solely his.

(CNN) America has arrived at the kind of moment in history that does not come very often -- when we are being tested in ways that are so extraordinary, we rediscover ourselves. One day, we will look back on the first weeks of 2017 and ask ourselves what we did to stand up, speak out, and live up to our values.

Eric Garcetti

People everywhere are responding to this moment in dramatic and unprecedented ways. Hundreds of thousands of people flooded into downtown Los Angeles for the Women's March to rally for the values that make us American: freedom and justice, compassion and integrity, equality for all people.

Over the last few days, thousands have taken to airports to stand with refugees and other immigrants who have been stranded by executive orders, signed by our new President, that are widely seen as plainly discriminatory against the Islamic faith and cruelly indifferent to the plight of refugees fleeing war and violence.

These public demonstrations have been powerfully affirming moments for our communities -- periods of focused action that we cannot afford to waste. So in my conversations with people over the last few days, I have been making a simple ask: Instead of worrying about the most powerful people, can we turn our attention, resources, and energy to the most vulnerable?

That idea is taking on new resonance in America, especially in cities, which -- in all their diversity, and as representatives of America's values -- are emerging as more vital than at any other time in recent memory.

Read More

*Julia Ebner is a policy analyst at Quilliam, a counter-extremism think tank in London. Jonathan Russell is Quilliam's head of policy. The opinions in this article belong to the authors.

(CNN) Trump's travel ban does not only lack compassion, precision and potentially legal grounding , but it is also strategic suicide.

The policy is fundamentally counter-productive to its declared goal of making America -- and the rest of the world -- "safe again." It may in fact even increase the risk of terrorist attacks on US ground.

By taking a short-sighted approach to homeland security that betrays the values on which the US was founded, the Trump administration risks an inadvertent collaboration with Islamist extremists.

A look at jihadist channels on Telegram, the encrypted instant messaging app, which have celebrated the executive order and the subsequent chaos, confirms this. For example, one post called Trump "the best caller to Islam."

After Trump's victory, the IS-supporting Telegram group Contestants of Jihad shared a picture of Trump holding a sign that quoted Sahih al-Bukhari Book Number 59 Hadith: "The Prophet said when the power of authority comes in the hands of unfit persons, then wait for our (Doomsday)."

Meanwhile, the al Qaeda affiliate Ansar al-Sharia in the Arabian Peninsula predicted that "Americans will remember 11/9 the way they remember 9/11," referring to the day after the 2016 US elections and the day that saw the biggest terrorist attack on American soil respectively.

By validating Islamist extremist narratives of the West being at war with Islam, the ban acts as a powerful recruiting incentive. It risks driving integrated Muslims towards vulnerability and vulnerable Muslims into the hands of extremists.

Research by Quilliam , the counter-extremism think tank for which we work, has shown that by exploiting widespread grievances and anger resulting from discriminatory policies, Islamist extremists have been able to widen their echo chambers and gain support.

In the past, anti-Muslim statements and policies by Western policymakers have consistently fed into their victimhood narratives and have permanently damaged the reputation and legitimacy of the US government's larger counterterrorism approach.

The travel ban would be likely to become a key strategic component of ISIS to discredit Western legislation and politics and to demonize the US.

ISIS supporters regularly point to both American and European "imperialist" foreign policy and anti-Muslim national policies as manifestations of the Western evil. Chats within their online echo chambers reveal that what they call the "blessed ban" has become their new favorite example.

Similar to jihadists' use of the "blessed invasion" of Iraq as a key recruiting argument, the ban can easily be used to prove that there is an ongoing "war on Muslims" by the "Crusader" nations.

ISIS knows that the ban will likely facilitate their efforts to lure Muslims into extremist networks permanently. These policies tend to live on in the memories of Muslim-majority communities and on extremist propaganda platforms for a long time.

"Fighting fire with fire" -- as Trump advocated in his first televised interview as President last week -- would thus most likely burn us rather than the terrorists.

If the new administration wants to reduce the terrorist threat within the US, it will need to embrace a values-based counter-extremism policy. Policies that discriminate against ethnic or religious minorities tend to speed up the dynamics of reciprocal radicalization.

Enraging people on the opposite side of the spectrum has in the past been a crucial driver of domestic radicalization rates -- for both far-right and Islamist extremism.

The records of both successful and foiled attacks on US territory show that in fact the biggest threat that the US faces may in fact come from home-grown terrorism -- whether far-right, anti-government or jihadist in nature.

Within its first week in office, the Trump administration has been busy locating problems outside -- and solutions within -- the country.

But in the case of terrorism, the problem may lie within its own borders. Meanwhile, part of the policy solution -- international cooperation and solidarity -- may be found abroad. Moreover, governments could focus on capacity building projects that encourage grassroots initiatives and empower civil society to counter violent extremism and terrorism.

Instead of tearing apart families through banning orders, they could bring together families through supporting civil society projects such as Families Against Terrorism and Extremism (FATE).

While ISIS has both physically and virtually been losing ground to the global coalition, its ideological appeal has not diminished, and is far from extinct. This is because ISIS has passed the stage where it needs to undertake active radicalizing efforts itself to recruit.

Just like billionaires who can rely on their banked money to work for itself, ISIS can today rely on its vast network to continue growing its support base.

The series of attacks in France and Germany in the summer of 2016 were not centrally coordinated by ISIS. They demonstrated the effectiveness of the new strategy outlined by now deceased ISIS spokesperson Al-Adnani last spring: using self-starter attacks and creating self-sustaining guerrilla warfare.

Loose and often highly localized Islamist extremist networks have made sure to spread the group's messages within their own communities, often by playing on state- or society-led anti-Muslim rhetoric and actions. In fact, many don't even need to promote ISIS, they can simply amplify the problems and hamstring the solutions.

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

Thus, fighting extremism with extreme responses -- such as "extreme vetting" -- can hardly be a sustainable solution.

Civil society currently has no better prevention tool against jihadist terrorism than to show its solidarity with those Muslim-majority countries that have been affected by the ban and to condemn any policies that drive our societies further apart.

Just like men should protest for the rights of women and heterosexuals for the rights of homosexuals, non-Muslims should defend the rights of Muslims.

Whether Democrat or Republican, Muslim or non-Muslim, white, black or brown -- standing up for the rights of our friends, colleagues and neighbors is more than a moral obligation. It is a strategic necessity for anyone concerned about safety.

*He told you hed make history! Trump is running for re-election before he can find the bathroom switch in the White House. Its definitely something to tell the grandchildren. Dont forget to print out the stories. You can use them as decorations on the wall of that old basement bomb shelter where youve secretly been starting to store canned goods and bottled water.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I know some of you are worried that the president is losing his mind. Perhaps you think that hes depressed over the fact that his first four weeks in power have been marked by a disastrous attempt at immigration control, the axing of the national security adviser, the ignominious retreat of a nominee for labor secretary and a failed military raid in Yemen.

No. I dont think theres ever been a president elected who in this short period of time has done what weve done, Trump said at his press conference. Remember, this is not a man who does self-deprecating irony.

The now-famous press conference did give us a whole new vision of what the Trump Era is going to entail. Beginning when he called in reporters to announce a new nominee for secretary of labor and then gave the topic only 100 words in the next hour and a quarter.

Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

You may have been unnerved by the presidents description of Obamacare. (I mean, they fill up our alleys with people that you wonder how they get there, but theyre not the Republican people that our representatives are representing.)

And perhaps his riff about Russia weirded you out. ( probably Putin assumes that hes not going to be able to make a deal with me because its politically not popular for me to make a deal. So Hillary Clinton tries a reset. It failed. They all tried. But Im different from those people.)

Stop this. Were trying to think positive. The good news is all this was not actually evidence the president is suffering a mental collapse. Hes always been like that.

Well take any cheering up we can get. Earlier in the week, Trump invited Chris Christie to a lunch at the White House. While everybody else at the table got to pick what they wanted to eat, the president made Christie order meatloaf. Its emasculating! cried a talk-show host to whom the governor of New Jersey  for some reason  reported the tale.

No its not, Christie responded, rather weakly. It is the president. And the meatloaf was good. Its been a while since weve had a chance to contemplate the fall, humiliation and political ruination the governor suffered at the hands of his alleged friend Donald. But every time it happens, theres a little sunbeam.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Right now the administration is such a mess that after national security adviser Mike Flynn was pushed out of office, Trumps next pick claimed he couldnt take the job because he needed to spend more time with his family. Thats bad. On the other hand, the president did promise to create jobs. And the way were going, sooner or later everybody in the country is going to get an offer to serve in a top White House position.

En route to Florida for his re-election rally, the president stopped off at a Boeing plant in South Carolina, and supporters who had worried that the administration was going off the rails were heartened when he read his speech like a normal person. There were only a couple of off-the-cuff remarks about what a winner he is, and only one sort of strange moment, when he was talking about Air Force One. What can look so beautiful at 30? Trump demanded. An airplane.

Meanwhile, at the James Buchanan house, Patrick Clarke declined to offer any personal opinion on whether Trump could send Buchanan up a notch in the ratings. But he did provide an excellent example of thinking positive: You know, if my guy wasnt rated worst  if he fell smack dab in the middle  hed be lost.

Hold that thought. Whatever else happens you can take comfort in the realization that were not going to spend the next four years stuck with some boring mediocrity. Were going nowhere near the middle.

*But the attempt to diagnose a condition in President Trump and declare him mentally unfit to serve is misguided for several reasons.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

First, all experts have political beliefs that probably distort their psychiatric judgment. Consider what my mostly liberal profession said of Senator Barry Goldwater, the Republican nominee for president in 1964, right before the election. Members of the American Psychiatric Association were surveyed about their assessment of Goldwater by the now-defunct Fact magazine. Many savaged him, calling him paranoid, grossly psychotic and a megalomaniac. Some provided diagnoses, like schizophrenia and narcissistic personality disorder.

They used their professional knowledge as a political weapon against a man they had never examined and who certainly would never have consented to their discussing his mental health in public.

Goldwater sued (successfully) and, as a result, in 1973 the A.P.A. developed the Goldwater Rule. It says that psychiatrists can discuss mental health issues with the news media, but that it is unethical for them to diagnose mental illnesses in people they have not examined and whose consent they have not received.

Contrary to what many believe, this rule does not mean that professionals must remain silent about public figures. In fact, the guidelines specifically state that mental health experts should share their knowledge to educate the public.

So while it would be unethical for a psychiatrist to say that President Trump has narcissistic personality disorder, he or she could discuss common narcissistic character traits, like grandiosity and intolerance of criticism, and how they might explain Mr. Trumps behavior. In other words, psychiatrists can talk about the psychology and symptoms of narcissism in general, and the public is free to decide whether the information could apply to the individual.

This may seem like splitting hairs, but it isnt. Diagnosis requires a thorough examination of a patient, a detailed history and all relevant clinical data  none of which can be gathered from afar. Narcissism, for instance, isnt the only explanation for impulsive, inattentive and grandiose behavior. Someone could be suffering instead from another clinical problem like attention deficit hyperactivity disorder; the abuse of drugs, alcohol or stimulants; or a variant of bipolar disorder, to name just a few.

This is all to say that when mental health professionals label public figures with mental illnesses, it is not just unethical  its intellectually suspect. We dont have the requisite clinical data to know what we are talking about.

Besides, even if you posit that a president has a mental disorder, that in itself may say little about his fitness to serve. After all, Lincoln had severe depression. Theodore Roosevelt was probably bipolar. Ulysses S. Grant was an alcoholic. According to a study based on biographical data, 18 of Americas first 37 presidents met criteria suggesting they suffered from a psychiatric disorder during their lifetime: 24 percent from depression, 8 percent from anxiety, 8 percent from bipolar disorder and 8 percent from alcohol abuse or dependence. And 10 of those presidents showed signs of mental illness while they were in office.

Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

You can be psychiatrically ill and be perfectly competent, just as you can be mentally healthy but totally unfit. (Of course, certain mental states, like florid psychosis or dementia, would render a president unfit to serve.)

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

There is one last reason we should avoid psychiatrically labeling our leaders: It lets them off the moral hook. Not all misbehavior reflects psychopathology; the fact is that ordinary human meanness and incompetence are far more common than mental illness. We should not be in the business of medicalizing bad actors.

So the nation doesnt need a shrink to help it to decide whether President Trump is fit to serve, mentally or otherwise. Presidents should be judged on the merits of their actions, statements and, I suppose, their tweets. No experts are needed for that  just common sense.

*As an official in the Justice Department, I followed in Hamiltons footsteps, advising that President George W. Bush could take vigorous, perhaps extreme, measures to protect the nation after the Sept. 11 attacks, including invading Afghanistan, opening the Guantnamo detention center and conducting military trials and enhanced interrogation of terrorist leaders. Likewise, I supported President Barack Obama when he drew on this source of constitutional power for drone attacks and foreign electronic surveillance.

Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

But even I have grave concerns about Mr. Trumps uses of presidential power.

During the campaign, Mr. Trump gave little sign that he understood the constitutional roles of the three branches, as when he promised to appoint justices to the Supreme Court who would investigate Hillary Clinton. (Judge Neil M. Gorsuch will not see this as part of his job description.) In his Inaugural Address, Mr. Trump did not acknowledge that his highest responsibility, as demanded by his oath of office, is to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution. Instead, he declared his duty to represent the wishes of the people and end American carnage, seemingly without any constitutional restraint.

While my robust vision of the presidency supports some of Mr. Trumps early executive acts  presidents have the power to terminate international agreements like the Trans-Pacific Partnership, for example  others are more dubious. Take his order to build a wall along the border with Mexico, and his suggestion that he will tax Mexican imports or currency transfers to pay for it. The president has no constitutional authority over border control, which the Supreme Court has long found rests in the hands of Congress. Under Article I of the Constitution, only Congress can fund the construction of a wall, a fence or even a walking path along the border. And the president cannot slap a tax or tariff on Mexican imports without Congress.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Nor can Mr. Trump pull the United States out of Nafta, because Congress made the deal with Mexico and Canada by statute. Presidents have no authority to cancel tariff and trade laws unilaterally.

Immigration has driven Mr. Trump even deeper into the constitutional thickets. Even though his executive order halting immigration from seven Muslim nations makes for bad policy, I believe it falls within the law. But after the order was issued, his adviser Rudolph Giuliani disclosed that Mr. Trump had initially asked for a Muslim ban, which would most likely violate the Constitutions protection for freedom of religion or its prohibition on the state establishment of religion, or both  no mean feat. Had Mr. Trump taken advantage of the resources of the executive branch as a whole, not just a few White House advisers, he would not have rushed out an ill-conceived policy made vulnerable to judicial challenge.

Mr. Trumps firing of the acting attorney general, Sally Yates, for her stated intention not to defend his immigration policy, also raises concerns. Even though the constitutional text is silent on the issue, long historical practice and Supreme Court precedent have recognized a presidential power of removal. Mr. Trump was thus on solid footing, because attorneys general have a duty to defend laws and executive orders, so long as they have a plausible legal grounding. But the White House undermined its valid use of the removal power by accusing Ms. Yates of being weak on borders and very weak on illegal immigration. Such irrelevant ad hominem accusations suggest a misconception of the presidents authority of removal.

A successful president need not have a degree in constitutional law. But he should understand the Constitutions grant of executive power. He should share Hamiltons vision of an energetic president leading the executive branch in a unified direction, rather than viewing the government as the enemy. He should realize that the Constitution channels the president toward protecting the nation from foreign threats, while cooperating with Congress on matters at home.

Otherwise, our new president will spend his days overreacting to the latest events, dissipating his political capital and haphazardly wasting the executives powers.

*Photo

A special strength of American democracy has been the desire of newly elected presidents to unite the public with healing words after the sound and fury of the campaign.

Now comes President-elect Donald Trump. He has won the office and yet has continued his vindictive, disruptive style of politicking. He has run a post-campaign that has corroded the traditional grace period of considerate political transition that the nation needs. The hope of citizens for a better future, for a sense of uplift, has wound up hostage to his impetuous Twitter attacks on individuals, institutions and nations.

Fellow Republicans like Senator John McCain openly wonder whether Mr. Trumps chief obsession is to engage with every windmill that he can find, rather than to focus on the most important position on earth.

This is the question haunting Mr. Trumps inauguration on Friday. Is he up to the job of uniting and leading the nation  of achieving and sustaining the tone that Americans for generations have called presidential? Or will self-absorption and free-flowing peevishness be the hallmarks of an era of domestic and global crises, stirred up by grossly uninformed perceptions of reality?

Poll numbers suggest that the public already has lost heart during the transition, rating Mr. Trump the least popular president-elect of modern times. Mr. Trump, of course, reacted with a fresh Twitter attack that the polls were rigged. Sad, as he likes to say, that he did not realize that the nation, and his standing, would be better served by a hint of humility and resolve to win over all Americans. Instead we had more Trump Lashes Out  headlines.

Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The contrast with President Obamas incumbency and personal demeanor could not be more vivid or less encouraging. Mr. Trumps first news conference as president-elect, just last week, was a clinic in bombast and self-aggrandizement, punctuated by denials of the need to make his tax returns public or to curtail business interests that could invite corruption. His breathtaking ignorance about health care and the Affordable Care Act made him seem clueless about just how he imagines replacing it.

Mr. Obamas final news conference this week was a study in the sort of intelligent public speaking on complex issues that has characterized his eight years of scandal-free governance. It was leavened with a bit of self-deprecation, as Mr. Obama referred to No-Drama Obama in noting his own optimism, as if mindful of the years of melodramatics that might follow.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Americans who voted for Mr. Trump, as well as those who voted against him, surely must see that few incoming presidents have been in greater need of an informed cabinet and experienced public officials. Yet his cabinet choices have largely been ideologues and plutocrats who may or may not carry out Mr. Trumps contradictory campaign promises.

This is not the first time that transition has seemed too gentle a word for a startling if not shocking swerve in public policy and presidential style. A youthful John F. Kennedy succeeded the aged Dwight Eisenhower; the rock-ribbed conservative Ronald Reagan followed the liberal Jimmy Carter. Barack Obama came on the heels of George W. Bush, who himself followed Bill Clinton. Each of these presidents came into office with passionate opponents who worried for the future of the nation.

Yet each president also seemed awed by the responsibilities of the office, and each seemed to grasp what the country needed. Our unity, our union, is a serious work of leaders and citizens and every generation, Mr. Bush declared at his first inaugural, after, like Mr. Trump, losing the popular vote but winning in the Electoral College. And this is my solemn pledge: I will work to build a single nation of justice and opportunity.

The campaign is over. The nation needs to hear Mr. Trump pick up this grand American theme and then find enough personal conviction to make it a central aspiration of his presidency.

*Photo

A special strength of American democracy has been the desire of newly elected presidents to unite the public with healing words after the sound and fury of the campaign.

Now comes President-elect Donald Trump. He has won the office and yet has continued his vindictive, disruptive style of politicking. He has run a post-campaign that has corroded the traditional grace period of considerate political transition that the nation needs. The hope of citizens for a better future, for a sense of uplift, has wound up hostage to his impetuous Twitter attacks on individuals, institutions and nations.

Fellow Republicans like Senator John McCain openly wonder whether Mr. Trumps chief obsession is to engage with every windmill that he can find, rather than to focus on the most important position on earth.

This is the question haunting Mr. Trumps inauguration on Friday. Is he up to the job of uniting and leading the nation  of achieving and sustaining the tone that Americans for generations have called presidential? Or will self-absorption and free-flowing peevishness be the hallmarks of an era of domestic and global crises, stirred up by grossly uninformed perceptions of reality?

Poll numbers suggest that the public already has lost heart during the transition, rating Mr. Trump the least popular president-elect of modern times. Mr. Trump, of course, reacted with a fresh Twitter attack that the polls were rigged. Sad, as he likes to say, that he did not realize that the nation, and his standing, would be better served by a hint of humility and resolve to win over all Americans. Instead we had more Trump Lashes Out  headlines.

Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The contrast with President Obamas incumbency and personal demeanor could not be more vivid or less encouraging. Mr. Trumps first news conference as president-elect, just last week, was a clinic in bombast and self-aggrandizement, punctuated by denials of the need to make his tax returns public or to curtail business interests that could invite corruption. His breathtaking ignorance about health care and the Affordable Care Act made him seem clueless about just how he imagines replacing it.

Mr. Obamas final news conference this week was a study in the sort of intelligent public speaking on complex issues that has characterized his eight years of scandal-free governance. It was leavened with a bit of self-deprecation, as Mr. Obama referred to No-Drama Obama in noting his own optimism, as if mindful of the years of melodramatics that might follow.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Americans who voted for Mr. Trump, as well as those who voted against him, surely must see that few incoming presidents have been in greater need of an informed cabinet and experienced public officials. Yet his cabinet choices have largely been ideologues and plutocrats who may or may not carry out Mr. Trumps contradictory campaign promises.

This is not the first time that transition has seemed too gentle a word for a startling if not shocking swerve in public policy and presidential style. A youthful John F. Kennedy succeeded the aged Dwight Eisenhower; the rock-ribbed conservative Ronald Reagan followed the liberal Jimmy Carter. Barack Obama came on the heels of George W. Bush, who himself followed Bill Clinton. Each of these presidents came into office with passionate opponents who worried for the future of the nation.

Yet each president also seemed awed by the responsibilities of the office, and each seemed to grasp what the country needed. Our unity, our union, is a serious work of leaders and citizens and every generation, Mr. Bush declared at his first inaugural, after, like Mr. Trump, losing the popular vote but winning in the Electoral College. And this is my solemn pledge: I will work to build a single nation of justice and opportunity.

The campaign is over. The nation needs to hear Mr. Trump pick up this grand American theme and then find enough personal conviction to make it a central aspiration of his presidency.

*Washington  Donald J. Trump comes into office on Friday with an agenda largely built around tearing down that of his predecessor  rescinding executive orders, ripping up the Iran nuclear deal, backing the repeal of Obamacare and withdrawing from international climate change agreements, to name just a few of his possible first steps.

If Mr. Trump expected Barack Obama, who will be the first president since Woodrow Wilson to continue living in Washington, to retire to silence, he got a rude awakening on Wednesday. Mr. Obama told reporters at his last news conference that action by the new president on any number of things  voting rights, rescinding the so-called Dreamers program for immigrants who came to this country as children  would merit me speaking out.

Mr. Obamas critics were quick to point out that this simply wasnt done. Presidents are supposed to slip off the stage, take up hobbies and charities, let their successors have a go at it. But that hasnt always been the case.

Photo

True, many presidents have moved off quietly: Herbert Hoover, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Lyndon B. Johnson, Richard M. Nixon and George W. Bush, who said that his successor deserves my silence. Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton pursued politics by other means through philanthropic and human rights endeavors. For many, writing memoirs provides a calming withdrawal from the hurly-burly of political disputes and frustration at congressional opposition that blocked at least parts of their agendas, and foreign adversaries who opposed their designs for peaceful relations abroad.

Mr. Obama said he planned to do some of that. He would use his free time to do some writing. I want to be quiet a little bit and not hear myself talk so darn much. I want to spend precious time with my girls. So those are my priorities this year.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But other presidents have taken a different route. Harry S. Truman, for example, spent several years in semiretirement, writing a two-volume defense of his almost eight years in the White House. But in 1960 he returned to politics. He despised Vice President Richard M. Nixon, but he detested John F. Kennedys father, Joseph, even more. The elder Kennedy was a strident critic of Franklin D. Roosevelt, and Truman joined Eleanor Roosevelt in raising questions about the younger Kennedys youth and inexperience. Though Roosevelt eventually warmed to Kennedy, Truman never did.

Then theres Theodore Roosevelt, who already had his share and more of hobbies and adventures to tend to in 1909, but nevertheless spent his early post-White House years lambasting his successor, William Howard Taft. Roosevelt was so incensed by Tafts coziness with big business and his apparent lack of interest in his predecessors progressive agenda that he ran for the presidency in 1912 as a third-party candidate.

Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

All of these ex-presidents made their choices under fairly conventional circumstances  what Mr. Obama called normal back-and-forth, ebb-and-flow of policy. Taft didnt come into office promising to erase Roosevelts legacy.

But these are not conventional circumstances, which is why its not surprising that Mr. Obama has no intention of entirely retreating from the political ramparts. He sees some of his achievements  on health care, on the climate accord, on voting rights  as not just policy successes, but as expressive of what he sees as fundamental American values outside the usual political give and take.

Its likely, though, that a good part of his motivation is personal. Mr. Trump entered politics with the birther movement, and his attacks on Mr. Obamas record have been unprecedentedly harsh. To be sure, past candidates for the office often took on an opposing partys incumbent  Roosevelt did not speak softly about Hoovers failures, nor did Kennedy shun criticism of Eisenhowers record, going so far as to create the fake news of a missile gap with the Soviet Union. But Mr. Trumps rhetoric suggesting that Mr. Obama has driven the country into a ditch and that he would make America great again is far beyond the criticism leveled at predecessors.

Those wary of an overactive ex-president should remember Mr. Obamas reputation for considered tact. He has been a perfect gentleman in responding to Mr. Trumps overheated rhetoric about his record, welcoming him to the White House and keeping quiet about his unpresidential combativeness after narrowly winning an electoral-vote majority.

It is unlikely that he will become a firebrand out of office. But to sit quietly and allow Mr. Trump to break the tradition of silence about a predecessors achievements and to shout his intentions to tear apart everything he holds dear is a challenge to political combat that Mr. Obama cannot  and should not  ignore.

*Polls suggest that voters are already souring on Donald Trump, in ways that may soon create nostalgia for Obama. Newly elected presidents usually enjoy a honeymoon, but Gallup says Trumps approval is at the lowest level the pollster has recorded in a presidential transition.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mostly, I think we journalists overdo the personal and pay insufficient attention to policies  such as those that led Obamas presidency to enjoy the longest streak of consecutive private-sector job creation in the 78 years the statistic has been recorded. But while Obamas policy legacy is being whittled away, he also has an important personal legacy that Trump inadvertently burnishes.

A president inevitably is not just commander in chief, but also a role model, a symbol of American values around the world. We won the Cold War not only with American missiles, but also with American soft power, and one element of our soft power arsenal is a president who commands respect and admiration at home and abroad. We want our children and the worlds to admire our president  and that is where Obama is strongest and Trump weakest.

Trump spews emotional tweets impetuously and vindictively, lacing his venom with misspellings or grammatical mistakes. Well be craving Obamas prudence, intellect and reserve.

Sign Up for the Nicholas Kristof Newsletter Receive emails about each column and other occasional commentary. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The personal differences between them arent just that Obama was an African-American son of a single mom, while Trump was the scion of a real estate tycoon. Its more the behaviors they model. Trump has had five children by three wives, has boasted of his infidelities, has shrugged at conflicts of interest and is a walking scandal.

He will never, ever, let you down.  Donald is intensely loyal, we were told at the Republican convention  by his third wife. In contrast, Obama has the most boring personal life imaginable, and is the rare president who got through a second term without significant scandals.

That seems to be because of extreme caution. When Obama won the Nobel Peace Prize, he solicited a 13-page memo from Justice Department lawyers verifying that there was absolutely no conflict in accepting it. And then he donated the money to charities.

Whatever our views of Obamas politics, we should be able to agree that he is a superlative family man. For eight years, this family has made us proud. The graciousness that the Obamas displayed toward the Trumps, even as in private they must have been beating their heads against the wall, exemplified class.

When Obama gave his farewell address in Chicago this month, he was accompanied by Michelle and his older daughter, Malia, but 15-year-old Sasha was missing. Twitter was abuzz, and #WheresSasha was soon trending. It turned out that she wasnt in a drunken stupor, or staying away in an angry teenage sulk. Rather, it seemed that the Obamas had Sasha stay home to study for an exam the next morning.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

If I were Sasha, Id be annoyed: Cmon, Dad! You coulda written me a note! But Im proud of a first family that so values education, and is so averse to asserting privilege.

We can argue about Obamas policies. For my part, I deplored his passivity on Syria. But even on issues that I disagreed with him on, I never doubted his integrity or intelligence, his decency or honor.

Trump may dismantle Obamacare and pull out of the Paris climate accord. But he cannot undo Obamas legacy of dignity and old-fashioned virtue, and the impression he made on all of us.

And if, as I fear, we see the White House transformed into a bog of scandals flowing from an unprincipled narcissist, we as a nation will be more appreciative of a first family that set an impeccable example for all the world.

*Polls suggest that voters are already souring on Donald Trump, in ways that may soon create nostalgia for Obama. Newly elected presidents usually enjoy a honeymoon, but Gallup says Trumps approval is at the lowest level the pollster has recorded in a presidential transition.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mostly, I think we journalists overdo the personal and pay insufficient attention to policies  such as those that led Obamas presidency to enjoy the longest streak of consecutive private-sector job creation in the 78 years the statistic has been recorded. But while Obamas policy legacy is being whittled away, he also has an important personal legacy that Trump inadvertently burnishes.

A president inevitably is not just commander in chief, but also a role model, a symbol of American values around the world. We won the Cold War not only with American missiles, but also with American soft power, and one element of our soft power arsenal is a president who commands respect and admiration at home and abroad. We want our children and the worlds to admire our president  and that is where Obama is strongest and Trump weakest.

Trump spews emotional tweets impetuously and vindictively, lacing his venom with misspellings or grammatical mistakes. Well be craving Obamas prudence, intellect and reserve.

Sign Up for the Nicholas Kristof Newsletter Receive emails about each column and other occasional commentary. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The personal differences between them arent just that Obama was an African-American son of a single mom, while Trump was the scion of a real estate tycoon. Its more the behaviors they model. Trump has had five children by three wives, has boasted of his infidelities, has shrugged at conflicts of interest and is a walking scandal.

He will never, ever, let you down.  Donald is intensely loyal, we were told at the Republican convention  by his third wife. In contrast, Obama has the most boring personal life imaginable, and is the rare president who got through a second term without significant scandals.

That seems to be because of extreme caution. When Obama won the Nobel Peace Prize, he solicited a 13-page memo from Justice Department lawyers verifying that there was absolutely no conflict in accepting it. And then he donated the money to charities.

Whatever our views of Obamas politics, we should be able to agree that he is a superlative family man. For eight years, this family has made us proud. The graciousness that the Obamas displayed toward the Trumps, even as in private they must have been beating their heads against the wall, exemplified class.

When Obama gave his farewell address in Chicago this month, he was accompanied by Michelle and his older daughter, Malia, but 15-year-old Sasha was missing. Twitter was abuzz, and #WheresSasha was soon trending. It turned out that she wasnt in a drunken stupor, or staying away in an angry teenage sulk. Rather, it seemed that the Obamas had Sasha stay home to study for an exam the next morning.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

If I were Sasha, Id be annoyed: Cmon, Dad! You coulda written me a note! But Im proud of a first family that so values education, and is so averse to asserting privilege.

We can argue about Obamas policies. For my part, I deplored his passivity on Syria. But even on issues that I disagreed with him on, I never doubted his integrity or intelligence, his decency or honor.

Trump may dismantle Obamacare and pull out of the Paris climate accord. But he cannot undo Obamas legacy of dignity and old-fashioned virtue, and the impression he made on all of us.

And if, as I fear, we see the White House transformed into a bog of scandals flowing from an unprincipled narcissist, we as a nation will be more appreciative of a first family that set an impeccable example for all the world.

*It wasnt enough because of the depth of the countrys problems. Soaring inequality. Unregulated Wall Street. Underperforming schools. Millions lacking health insurance. Climate change.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

More than a few times during Obamas presidency, he has seemed to be following the pattern of liberal disappointment. The left would despair that he was too soft, while the right would cast him as either evil or hapless. Just when he seemed to have conquered his critics, the most shocking threat came along: the election of Donald J. Trump.

Three days from now, Trump and congressional Republicans will have the power to begin undoing Obamas presidency. And yet they are going to have a harder time than many people realize.

A clear explanation of why appears in a new book, Audacity, by Jonathan Chait of New York magazine, one of todays must-read political journalists. He documents the scale of Obamas domestic policy, on health care, taxes, finance, climate, civil rights and education. Chait also explains why it wont simply disappear.

Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

While Trump will obviously be able to reverse some policies, he will also face obstacles. First, some of Obamas changes are popular, even if passing them was hard. Look at Obamacare. Republicans promise to repeal it, but have accepted Obamas terms of the debate: They claim that they wont take health insurance away. The baseline has been reset.

Second, Obamas presidency unleashed changes that Washington doesnt control. Many states have become less tolerant of poorly performing schools. Climate policy helped make clean energy increasingly cost-competitive, on its own.

Third, Senate Democrats still have the ability to filibuster some Republican wishes, including the reversal of financial regulation. The fatalistic conclusion that Trump can erase Obamas achievements is overstated  perhaps even completely false, Chait writes.

The book is a brave one, because journalists are usually loath to call a politician successful, for fear of being branded nave or partisan. Were comfortable calling balls as balls, but prefer to criticize strikes as imperfect. (And all strikes, like all politicians, are indeed imperfect.) As a result, we too often give an overly negative view of current events only to wax nostalgic about those same events decades later.

In truth, Obama succeeded by taking a rigorous, evidence-based approach to government. He began trying to broker bipartisan deals and, when that failed, governed as a tough Democrat, with crucial help from Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid. Obamas mistakes, like Syria, were serious, but no president yet has avoided serious errors.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Obama leaves office as the most successful Democrat since Franklin Roosevelt. His effect on the trajectory of America, to use his benchmark, was certainly smaller than Roosevelts, but is in the same league as Reagans. Obama did more while in office, while Reagan better protected his policy changes, thanks to Republican gains in state and congressional elections  and the victory of his chosen successor.

Obamas glaring failure on that last count leaves his allies needing to fight, hard, to defend their successes, rather than to make further progress on problems that badly need it, like climate and inequality. But its a testament to the last eight years that progressives have so much to defend.

Any large scale of reordering of power and resources in American life will inevitably face resistance, sometimes for decades, Chait writes. It happened after Reconstruction, the New Deal and the civil rights movement. But by continuing to fight, through victory and setback, the advocates of a freer, more broadly prosperous country won many more than they lost.

When future historians look back on today, theyre likely to come to a similar conclusion. They are also likely to believe that Obamas vision of America was far superior to Trumps. After all, a vast majority of Americans born in the last few decades share Obamas vision. And history is ultimately written by the young.

*In advance of his farewell address next week, the president has tried to Trump-proof a climate pact that commits the worlds second leading producer of earth-warming pollutants  the United States  to making this little orb of ours a less perilous place for Sashas and Malias and Ivankas kids. Trump has promised to go rogue on the planet, as quickly as he can.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Until Day 1, Trump is just a 70-year-old man with a twitchy Twitter account. But on Jan. 20, he becomes what Grover Norquist wished for in a pliantly conservative president: A Republican with enough working digits to handle a pen.

With that pen, the new president can take health care from 20 million Americans, free Wall Street to once again wildly speculate and smash things up for the rest of us, and require schools to let people carry guns into classrooms  all campaign promises.

Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Make America Sick Again is the slogan floated by Senator Chuck Schumer, who is much better at messaging a negative than Obama ever was at messaging a positive. The people who stand to lose most are Trump supporters. The Affordable Care Act has saved countless lives in red states, and slowed medical costs. So why toss it, without a plan to replace it? To spite the guy on the way out.

The intent of Republicans, poised to push through the most far-reaching conservative agenda in nearly a hundred years, is to act as if Obama never existed  the George Bailey of presidents. It wont take long for Bedford Falls to become Pottersville.

Trump will cut taxes on the rich, and for those born on third base, eliminate an estate tax that was one of Teddy Roosevelts solutions to inequality. He may try to defund Planned Parenthood  for many poor women, the only chance to catch cancer early. He may deport Dreamers, more than 740,000 young people who have been allowed to obtain temporary work permits and avoid being thrown out of the country under Obama.

On his first day in office, Trump will repeal every single Obama executive order. Thats the promise of Vice President-elect Mike Pence. Obama issued just under 270 executive orders, well below the number proclaimed by Ronald Reagan, Dwight Eisenhower, Harry Truman, Franklin Roosevelt and even that conservative paragon, Silent Cal Coolidge.

A significant Obama order protected gays in the government contracting system from discrimination. Another prohibited federal employees from texting while driving. There were sanctions against criminals, mobsters and other international monsters, and upgrades in pay for federal employees who earned less than their private sector counterparts.

And get this: repealing every single Obama executive order would require Trump to dump four edicts that allowed federal workers to leave early on Christmas Eve. The War on Christmas heavy breathers at Fox News, who recently declared said conflict dead and won for St. Nicks side, will surely be outraged. Not.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Obama leaves office with his highest job approval ratings in four years. Most Americans like him and his policies. Trump will enter office with the lowest transition approval ratings of any president-elect in nearly a quarter-century. About half of all American dont like him, and of course, he got nearly three million fewer votes than Hillary Clinton.

Most of the Trump agenda  building a wall, cutting taxes on the rich, ramping up oil and gas drilling at the expense of alternative fuels, taking away peoples health care  is opposed by clear majorities. Trump will erase Obamas policy legacy at his peril.

What he cannot do is erase the mark of the man  a measured and rational president, a committed father and husband, who is leaving his country much better off, and the office without a trace of personal scandal.

*Photo

When historians get around to measuring President Obamas record of protecting Americas public lands from commercial development  its national monuments, parks, forests, wilderness and wildlife refuges  they are likely to rank him high on a list of luminaries that includes both Roosevelts, Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton. What makes this all the more remarkable is that Mr. Obama came to office as a Chicago urbanite with no obvious passion for environmental stewardship, had no help from Congress and, for his first four years, made little use of his executive authority to protect the federal estate from commercial encroachment. Indeed, his second inaugural address said a great deal about using those lands to produce energy and very little about conservation.

But somewhere along the line, as happened to President Clinton before him, came an epiphany  inspired by conservation-minded members of his White House staff, by past and present secretaries of the interior, and by the liberating knowledge that he was in his final term. The result has been an impressive four-year run of initiatives that have aroused howls about a federal land grab from his Republican critics while assuring him of a lofty perch in the environmental pantheon.

The latest of these was his designation on Wednesday of two new national monuments. Both were ardently sought by conservationists but just as ardently opposed by some elected Republicans. The areas in question are mixed-use federal lands that will now receive an extra layer of protection from commercial uses. One monument will protect 1.35 million acres surrounding two distinctive geological formations known as the Bears Ears Buttes, in southeastern Utah, encompassing stunning red-rock landscapes and many Native American sites of incomparable sacred and archaeological importance. A first-of-its-kind tribal commission will be a co-manager of the monument. The other monument will protect nearly 300,000 acres northeast of Las Vegas. It includes critical wildlife habitat and significant cultural resources.

Mr. Obama acted in both cases under the authority of the Antiquities Act, first used by Theodore Roosevelt in 1906. It allows a president to unilaterally protect areas of great natural or historical value when Congress is unlikely to do so. He has now invoked the act 29 times to create or expand national monuments, resulting in protections for 553 million acres of federal lands and waters  more than any other president, and a good bit of it coming from a fourfold expansion of a huge marine monument off the coast of Hawaii that was first designated by President George W. Bush.

Combined with the Interior Departments efforts to protect sensitive lands from mining and drilling and to preserve areas of Western habitat for threatened species like the sage grouse, Mr. Obamas aggressive environmental record has found few admirers in the oil and gas industry and its numerous Republican friends in Congress.

The Antiquities Act does not explicitly give a new president  Donald Trump, in this case  the authority to overturn a monument designation; legal experts say the matter has not been tested in court. But Congress could cause trouble going forward. One particularly aggrieved member of Congress is Rob Bishop of Utah, the powerful head of the House Natural Resources Committee. Mr. Bishop, who objected strongly to the Bears Ears designation, had earlier engineered House approval of a bill that would have stripped Mr. Obama and any future president of the unilateral authority to create monuments. That bill is certain to resurface in the new Congress, which makes us doubly grateful that Mr. Obama acted when he did.

*In recent days, President-elect Donald J. Trump has rejected the C.I.A.s conclusions that Russian hackers attempted to sway the American elections, and has accused unnamed officials within the agency of trying to undermine him. And he has rejected the tradition of receiving the intelligence communitys daily briefing, implying that he would rather rely on information and analysis from his inner circle of advisers.

Its a disturbing set of developments, if only because weve been here before. Presidents face a great temptation to go in-house for intelligence that fits with their plans; some have even set up formal or informal operations to circumvent the C.I.A. and other agencies. In almost every case, the result has been a disaster  for the president and for the country.

The most obvious example is Richard M. Nixon. When, as president-elect, he interviewed Henry A. Kissinger to be his national security adviser, Nixon told Kissinger that he didnt trust the State Department or the Ivy League liberals at the C.I.A. Once in office, Nixon tried to use the agency to shut down the F.B.I.s investigation of the Watergate burglary, but he was rejected by its director, Richard Helms.

But even long before Watergate, Nixon had decided to bypass the normal foreign-policy and intelligence chains. Nixon and Kissinger kept the secretary of state, William P. Rogers, in the dark on secret diplomacy and schemed to outfox the top brass at the Pentagon to conduct the bombing of Laos and Cambodia.

Photo

And when the generals and the intelligence officials refused to do his bidding, Nixon looked for someone who would. While he hated the C.I.A., he counted on J. Edgar Hoover of the F.B.I. Lyndon B. Johnson had told Nixon that Hoover would be the only one in Washington he could trust  meaning, trust to do his dirty work, just as he had for presidents going back to Franklin D. Roosevelt.

*Mr. Trump said recently that he intended to allow his family to take the helm after he assumes office. Ive built a very great company and its a big company and its all over the world, Mr. Trump said, adding, I dont care about my company. It doesnt matter. My kids run it. But of course it does matter; otherwise, he would liquidate his businesses, put the proceeds in a blind trust, send the kids out to find new jobs, and be done with the issue.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Given the potential for conflicts, it makes sense for the American people to demand assurances that the public interest wont be harmed by the continued operation of Trump Inc. So, what to do?

First, lets not pretend that the Trump children will not be conflicted in running the company for their father. That is why Mr. Trump should formalize his complete separation from his company and stop working on any aspect of his business. He should draw no pay. And, difficult as it may be, he should vow not to discuss any aspect of the Trump business empire with his children  or any other Trump executive.

Mr. Trump and those at the companys helm should commit to full transparency by making public any contracts with any federal agency, foreign government or foreign corporation. Our nations enemies, and some of our friends, will seek to either curry favor with or damage America through the Trump businesses. By providing full transparency, Mr. Trump and his family can show that they take seriously that, as Mr. Trump has tweeted, it is visually important, as president, to in no way have a conflict of interest with my various businesses.

It would be in the companys best interest to set up an internal watchdog to help develop procedures that could help avoid conflicts.

Judicial Watch has already analyzed a number of current foreign entanglements that will require Mr. Trump and his family to demonstrate thorough transparency:

In China, a frequent Trump target on the campaign trail, the government-controlled Bank of China is part of a group that lent a Trump-affiliated office building in Manhattan $950 million. In India, Trump business partners are building luxury apartment complexes. Three Indian developers flew to New York recently and met with the president-elect. And in Germany, troubled Deutsche Bank has been involved in $3.5 billion in loans to Trump entities since 1998.

These connections would create more than enough controversy for most administrations. So it would be a good practice for the Trump progeny to avoid any new foreign entanglements. The Constitutions Emoluments Clause bars the president from earning any compensation from a foreign government. Mr. Trump ought to consider a partial disinvestment from his company by either selling outright or rejecting the proceeds of any stakes with foreign government partners.

He should refuse any third party contributions to his personal foundation.

Above all, the Trump administration should be completely transparent on any government dealings with the Trump empire.

Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

His refusal to release his tax returns is another issue that will dog him. The law doesnt require Mr. Trump to release them, and he has been advised by his lawyer not to do so while he is under audit. It would obviously be good transparency and good politics to make them public. But critics should take seriously how the release of the confidential tax information could damage the company and the family.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In the best of circumstances, the Trump family business and questions about conflicts will be a burden to his presidency. There is no off-the-shelf ethics plan that would cover every possible conflict.

Judicial Watch, and the lefts planned Judicial Watch imitators, will monitor this issue. If he mishandles his devolvement from his business, he may tarnish his presidency. It would be ironic if Mr. Trumps business success put his political and business legacy at risk.

*Since Stein got only 51,463 votes in Michigan to Trumps 2,279,543, this would seem like an exercise in  um, futility? Deeply cynical minds think the real goal might just be to increase her donor database  her recount campaign has drawn more than $6 million. But Stein says she wants to demonstrate the need to reform the nations extremely messy voting system.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its a healing and positive thing to examine the vote, she said in a phone interview.

Hillary Clinton lost Michigan by 10,704 under the current count. Virtually no one  certainly not the Clinton lawyers  thinks shes going to make that up in a recount. However, its definitely possible Clinton could have gotten 10,705 votes more if Stein had stayed off the ballot in the first place. Jill Stein is the friend who ruins your wedding but really shows up for you during the divorce, twittered comedian Morgan Murphy.

Stein claims most of her supporters wouldnt have voted for anybody if the Green Party hadnt been an option. But even if she did make a difference, she doesnt care. I dont regard one candidate as preferable to the other, she said.

We had heard something similar from Ralph Nader, whose presence on the ballot in 2000 probably cost Al Gore Florida, and the presidency. On many of Naders issues, Gore was not great. But the point of the American system of democracy is that in the end, you often have to take the responsibility for choosing the better of two unlovely options. And if Gore had been elected, we wouldnt have invaded Iraq. Case closed.

Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Knowing what we know now, do you think the best thing the Greens could have done to battle global warming would have been running around trying to get attention for Jill Stein, or working like maniacs to support Clinton and keep Donald Trump out of the White House?

In my view theyre both lethal to the environment, said Stein.

In my view, the Green Party screwed up, big time. We will think of it from now on as the Chartreuse Party.

The one positive effect of the recount, besides reassuring people who worry the Russians might be capable of hacking a massive American vote tally, is the way it reminds the nation, every day, that Donald Trump is one of the least successful successful presidential candidates in American history.

He lost the popular vote to Clinton by more than two million votes. Due to our extremely strange Electoral College system, five men have gotten elected president even though more people voted for their opponent. But no one in modern history has come anywhere near Trumps ginormous negative accomplishment.

The only presidential victor since the Civil War who did worse was Rutherford B. Hayes, a Republican who lost the popular vote to Samuel Tilden in 1876 and won the electoral tally only after Republicans challenged the results in four states, all of which were finally decided by a Republican-dominated electoral commission on party-line votes. Everybody accused everybody else of fraud.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It was an election dominated by economic fear and racism. However, Hayes never claimed that millions of people in the contested states voted illegally, like another candidate we can think of. Perhaps Hayes decided winners dont whine. Perhaps it was because there were not yet millions of voters.

Its important for our mental health to accept that the current recount isnt going to change the election results, although its theoretically conceivable that additional legal challenges could make it impossible for anybody to win the necessary 270 votes when the Electoral College meets on Dec. 19. That would throw the decision over to the Republican-controlled Congress, and an obscure procedure that happened once before, when John Quincy Adams defeated Andrew Jackson.

Im bringing that up just so I can note that John Quincy Adams is the only person besides Rutherford B. Hayes who won the presidency with a worse negative percentage of the popular vote than Donald Trump. Big loser! Sad!

O.K., done ranting. For today.

*Photo

Donald Trump will take office as president facing a tsunami of litigation over his business practices and personal behavior. He may have settled the fraud suits involving Trump University, but at least 75 other lawsuits are underway against him or his companies, according to USA Today. Its investigation found more than 3,500 lawsuits over the past three decades, ranging from contract disputes to real estate battles to harassment and discrimination claims.

In short, Mr. Trump could find himself in a near-constant stream of court fights while he tries to focus on running the country. Even in advance of any decisions, there is a degree of poetic justice here, since the scorched-earth approach has long been standard practice for Mr. Trump; as a businessman, he thrived on no-holds-barred legal conflict and hauled out the heavy artillery for even minor disputes. Less than three weeks before the election, he threatened to sue at least 11 women who had recently come forward with allegations that he sexually assaulted them.

Now consider all the potential conflicts of interest if this litigiousness should come to, or from, the Oval Office. What happens if there is litigation involving a building he leases from the federal government? Or if the Internal Revenue Service  an executive-branch agency  recommends civil or criminal penalties based on an audit of Mr. Trumps taxes?

Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The Trump University lawsuits  two class actions filed in a San Diego federal court and a state fraud case brought by the New York attorney general, representing about 7,000 plaintiffs in all  show that these conflicts would not be limited to the federal government. Court documents revealed a dishonest operation that was marketed as a way for regular people to make lots of money by following Mr. Trumps secrets to real estate investing.

But according to Trump University employees, Mr. Trumps investing techniques were never part of the program. Instead, salespeople were trained to exploit vulnerable students by pressuring them to pay thousands of dollars to attend seminars and personal mentorship programs, many run by people with little or no experience in real estate. One sales manager called the entire business model a fraudulent scheme.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Trump initially said he would never settle the suits, a claim he has often made in other cases. But in fact, Mr. Trump settles lawsuits quite often  in more than one-third of the cases whose outcome is on the public record, according to an analysis by Bloomberg Politics. As soon as he was elected, he changed his tune on the Trump University suits, surely realizing that it would not look good for a sitting president to take the stand in his own defense against charges of fraud and racketeering.

Unsurprisingly, Mr. Trump presented this latest settlement  which did not require him to admit liability  as a personal sacrifice in the national interest. The ONLY bad thing about winning the Presidency, the president-elect tweeted on Saturday, is that I did not have the time to go through a long but winning trial on Trump U. Too bad!

It is as if Mr. Trump views the courts as a casino: You win some and you lose some. But luckily for him, even when he loses, he wins: Most of the $25 million settlement will be a tax write-off.

*Photo

It was good to hear Donald Trump disavow and condemn the white nationalism of some of his supporters, in a meeting Tuesday at The New York Times.

It was good to hear him acknowledge that climate change is linked to human activity, and that maybe waterboarding isnt such a great idea after all. And speaking for the home team, it was good to hear him even call The New York Times a great, great American jewel.

It was, of course, hard to square all these statements with his record of spreading the birther lie about President Obama, calling climate change a hoax, promising hed bring back waterboarding and describing The New York Times as failing.

But, hey, if President-elect Trump moderates his views, and then crystallizes those views in policies that, as he put it, save our country, we will commend him on growth in office. I am awed by the job, he said.

Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The problem is, as pleasant as it was to hear those remarks, it was alarming to confront how thinly thought through many of the president-elects stances actually are. Consider climate change. Mr. Trump said that he valued clean air and water, but that he hadnt decided if combating climate change was worth the expense. I have a totally open mind, he said, making a virtue of not knowing the issue.

Or take torture. In the campaign, he stoutly defended waterboarding, which is contrary to American values and illegal under international law. Yet one conversation, with Gen. James Mattis, a candidate for defense secretary, may have changed his mind. General Mattis told Mr. Trump what experts have been saying for years: Torture doesnt work. Mr. Trump said he was impressed and surprised by General Mattiss assurance that, Give me a pack of cigarettes and a couple of beers and Ill do better.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We would applaud any sensible change of position, however arrived at. Mr. Trumps apparent flexibility, combined with his lack of depth on policy, might be grounds to hope he will steer a wiser course than the one plotted by his campaign. But so far he is surrounding himself with officials eager to enact only the most extreme positions. His flexibility would be their springboard.

President Obama, who also spoke of bringing the country together, invited Republicans to join his administration. We have not yet seen Mr. Trump make any such effort to reach across party lines.

And in one area, Mr. Trump remained quite inflexible: He made clear he has no intention of selling his businesses and stepping decisively away from corrupting his presidency with an exponentially enhanced version of the self-dealing he accused Hillary Clinton of engaging in.

Ronald Reagan used to say that in dealing with the Soviet Union, the right approach was to trust, but verify. For now, thats also the right approach to take with Mr. Trump. Except, regrettably, for the trust part.

*Who, then, will decide the partys direction, Mr. Trump or Mr. Ryan? A useful precedent is the Republicans intraparty conflicts after the 1952 election, when another novice politician Republican, Dwight D. Eisenhower, was opposed by conservatives. The differences between the two men are manifold: Eisenhower was the nations greatest war hero, a dignified man of preternatural calm, who was also the president of Columbia University. Mr. Trump avoided the Vietnam-era draft and is better known for his inflammatory tweets and stream-of-consciousness stump speeches. Yet like Mr. Trump, Eisenhower, the first Republican president elected in 20 years, was not especially ideological. And like Mr. Trump, he was suspected of being a closet Democrat.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Harry Truman, the accidental and unpopular incumbent who feared he could not be elected on his own, had offered to step aside if Eisenhower agreed to run in his place in 1948 (with Truman on the ticket as vice president). This was partly an acknowledgment of Eisenhowers stature as the revered soldier of democracy who had led the Allies to victory in World War II.

Eisenhower declined, and Truman won. Four years later, Eisenhower got the Republican nomination, turning back the partys ideological leader, Robert A. Taft, in a bitter nomination fight, not unlike the one waged in Cleveland between Mr. Trump and Senator Ted Cruz. In defeat, Taft promised to support Eisenhower as long as he didnt stray from Republican orthodoxy. The greatest threat to liberty today is internal, from the constant growth of big government, Taft said, after presenting Eisenhower with a small-government manifesto.

Big government meant the programs enacted by Roosevelt and expanded by Truman during the 20-year period that began in the depths of the Great Depression and continued through World War II and into the Cold War. A new welfare state was in place, and America had become a global superpower. In addition to providing benefits for its citizens at home, the enlarged federal government administered the Marshall Plan and led the NATO alliance. Taft and other conservatives disliked all that as well as the expansion of free trade. They wanted to return the country to free-market purity and isolationism.

But converting principled rhetoric into policy wasnt easy. Once in office the Republicans will automatically endorse much of the New Deal, through the simple device of leaving things untouched, the political journalist Samuel Lubell predicted in 1952.

Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Eisenhowers two terms bore this out. Instead of unstringing the safety net, he worked, often with congressional Democrats, to strengthen it, and added a new layer with the bipartisan Civil Rights Act of 1957. His biggest infrastructure project, the Interstate System of highways, meshed with the booming auto economy and also with a Cold War defense strategy that called for state-of-the art evacuation routes in the event of thermonuclear attack.

President-elect Trump seems caught between those visions. His views on trade, business regulations and foreign policy resemble Tafts. But he sounds more like Eisenhower on many domestic policies. After President Obama, in a meeting with Mr. Trump, pointed out some key protections of the Affordable Care Act  for people with pre-existing medical conditions and young adults covered by their parents  Mr. Trump indicated he might moderate his position. Mr. Ryan, too, said, We can fix what is broken in health care without breaking what is working.

The same dynamic could play out on other issues. Mr. Trump has already begun talking about building a fence instead of a wall along sections of the Mexican border. And while he has been adamant about deporting undocumented immigrants, he has narrowed the emphasis to those with criminal records  the policy Mr. Obama has pursued. Clear differences with small-government conservatives could also emerge if House Republicans tried to privatize Medicare or health care services for veterans. On infrastructure, Mr. Trump seems inclined for now to side with Democrats who want a big plan over the objections of Republican deficit hawks.

One clue to how Mr. Trump might govern from the center is contained in exit polls. According to those surveys, groups about whom Mr. Trump said disparaging things  including women, Hispanics and blacks  voted against him, but less emphatically than expected. Mr. Trumps share of the African-American and Hispanic vote was actually larger than Mitt Romneys in 2012. Most striking was the gender gap. Hillary Clintons edge there, 54 to 42, was large, but not atypical.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

One major reason: Democrats simply didnt turn out for Mrs. Clinton in the same numbers they did for Mr. Obama. Mr. Trump talked about cultural issues like abortion, but not with the same intensity of Republicans past. Rather, his ability to tap into anger and frustration about jobs, trade and illegal immigration seemed to stir Republican and independent voters. It was easy to snicker when he asked African- American audiences what they had to lose by supporting him. (One answer may come in his court appointments.) But he recognized that those voters had doubts about him, and he urged them to take a chance. It was a rough-hewed pitch, and perhaps a cynical one. But many of those voters may have viewed it as a common-sense one, too.

To dismiss the great America evoked by Mr. Trump as nothing but code for prejudice and exclusion overlooks the legacy of opportunity and connectedness made possible by New Deal and Great Society programs. Created by Democrats, those programs have long been opposed by conservatives. But pragmatic Republicans like Eisenhower helped preserve them. Mr. Trump drew on this memory in his victory remarks. The forgotten men and women of our country will be forgotten no longer, he said, promising that he would fix our inner cities and rebuild our highways, bridges, tunnels, airports, schools, hospitals and rebuild our infrastructure, which will become, by the way, second to none, and we will put millions of our people to work as we rebuild it.

This is why the most important contest in the days ahead could be one within the Republican Party, as Mr. Trumps potential new New Deal comes up against the free-market vision of Mr. Ryan. Little more than a year ago, Mr. Ryan supported an infrastructure plan floated by Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York, who argued that hundreds of billions of dollars could come through a one-time repatriation of profits from giant companies overseas earnings in exchange for lower tax rates. It might seem surprising that Mr. Ryan  who has also been saying that he wants to privatize Medicare  was agreeable. But he represents a flyover state, Wisconsin, that has a troubled economy. The same was true of a second Republican, Senator Rob Portman of Ohio, who also backed the bill. The bill went nowhere, in part because of election tensions.

Now all three legislators will be returning to Washington, bigger players than before. Each would gain stature from a put-America-back-to work bill. The top House Democrat, Nancy Pelosi, instantly picked up on Mr. Trumps words, saying, We can work together to quickly pass a robust infrastructure jobs bill. She has been joined by other congressional Democrats, who are looking for areas of agreement with Mr. Trump on this and other measures that could ease the struggles of middle- and working-class America.

Populists of the past, most strikingly George Wallace, embraced the New Deal while also practicing a politics of racial division. Mr. Trump may follow a similar path, as his selection of Stephen K. Bannon, the former head of Breitbart News, as his chief strategist suggests. Mr. Trumps choice of Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama to be attorney general raises similar concerns.

But it is a long way to January 20. A Rust Belt Republicanism that returns to an older idea of pragmatic consensus politics could be a revolution for the better.

*Photo

President Obama is devoting much of the last foreign trip of his term to reassuring European allies that Washington will maintain its security commitments under Donald Trump and stay true to its democratic principles. Before leaving Washington, he met with Mr. Trump and said the president-elect expressed a great interest in maintaining our core strategic relationships, including strong and robust NATO partnerships.

But that message wont be credible unless and until the world hears it directly and unequivocally from Mr. Trump, who spent months on the campaign trail disparaging NATO and insisting that its members pay more for their own defense.

Mr. Trump is not the only worry in Western democracies, which now seem threatened by authoritarian leaders on all sides. A photo circulating on social media shows that the leadership of the United Nations Security Council could soon be made up of: the autocratic Vladimir Putin of Russia and Xi Jinping of China; the nationalist, far-right Marine Le Pen, if she wins the election in France next year; the ever-shifting and volatile Mr. Trump and Theresa May, the untested British prime minister.

The Western leaders in that group would be a far cry from those who, from the wreckage of World War II, built the trans-Atlantic community, promoted shared values of tolerance and human rights and created the network of institutions, like NATO, that have kept the peace and contributed to economic growth.

No wonder that Mr. Obama and others are not missing a chance to speak out about core democratic values. On his first overseas stop in Greece on Wednesday, Mr. Obama said: Our democracies show that we are stronger than terrorists, fundamentalists and absolutists, who cannot tolerate difference ... who try to change peoples way of life through violence.

Such assurances are necessary because of the forces shaking the alliance and European unity  the migration to Europe of huge numbers of refugees fleeing Syria and other conflicts, a rise in xenophobia and nationalism, economic stagnation and Mr. Putins expansionist moves in Ukraine.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Obama, in an essay co-written with Chancellor Angela Merkel for a German newspaper, implicitly rebutted the agenda laid out in Mr. Trumps campaign with a plea for more trans-Atlantic cooperation on everything from security and climate change to globalization and the defense of a more inclusive and interdependent world. The joint essay not only underscored Mrs. Merkels role as a leader of Europe but suggested that she alone among present world leaders seems capable of succeeding Mr. Obama as standard-bearer for Western democracy. Mrs. Merkel is under increasing pressure at home, however, because of a populist tide and anti-immigrant sentiment, and is facing elections next year.

*Mr. Trump, who until now had no experience in the federal government, is under immense pressure to find 4,100 qualified people to lead it. In an ideal scenario, his White House staff should be in place, and the 100 highest-ranking government agency officials  the cabinet, plus a range of defense, homeland security, disaster and pandemic response officials  should be ready to start work the moment Mr. Trump puts his hand on the Bible, to guard the nation from vulnerability during the transfer of power. That means their vetting and security clearances should be done and the nominees lined up for Senate confirmation. An additional 300 Senate-confirmed jobs should be filled by the start of the August congressional recess.

On Sunday, Mr. Trump chose as his chief of staff Reince Priebus, chairman of the Republican National Committee, who is a good friend of Mr. Pence and of Paul Ryan, the House speaker, and who has good relations with Congress. He is better than the other possible choice, Stephen Bannon, chairman of Breitbart News, Mr. Trumps campaign chief and Pied Piper of alt-right conspiracy theorists. Its ominous that Mr. Bannon will be chief strategist and senior counselor, in an arrangement billed as equal partners, with Mr. Priebus. And while the flashier jobs have been garnering Mr. Trumps attention, who is thinking about labor or the F.C.C.? What about the critical assistant secretaries? Will Mr. Trump, a micromanager who practically bounces quarters on the beds in Trump hotels, become bogged down in rsum minutiae, or entrust hiring to others? Will he shuffle and reshuffle his team, as he has his campaign staff?

*Photo

As I watched the unfolding electoral disaster on Tuesday night, a banner appeared on the New York Times website for the musical Hamilton.

It made me wonder what Alexander Hamilton would think of the state of the nation he helped create and the man who just took the White House. But even more, it reminded me that the battle that has consumed, tormented and once almost destroyed our country is still raging.

It is the battle between rural and urban, between those who want to keep things as they are, and those who are not part of that order and want a new one. It started when the country was born, and it has been bound up inextricably in race. Its a battle of culture and religion, too, but race  starting with the implacable evil of slavery  has primarily driven the divisions in this country since 1789.

On Tuesday, every nonwhite group in America voted overwhelmingly for Hillary Clinton. Actually, Clinton seems to have won the national vote by a small margin, but thats not what counts. The Electoral College system has long been broken, but President-elect Donald Trump won decisively and we have to honor the legitimacy of his election, which is probably more than he would have done.

But did it have to be so ugly and leave us a nation more divided and mistrustful of one another than ever? Did it have to be about racial and ethnic and cultural intolerance  about the forces of fear and division that the Republican Party has been exploiting for decades?

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On Tuesday, Trump built his victory in rural, white America. He built it on the backs of ordinary working Americans, for whom I doubt he has any real regard, and those who are angry at corruption and the power of the wealthy establishment, even though he epitomizes both. Exit polls show that huge majorities of Americans think illegal immigrants should not be deported, and yet many of those same people gave their votes to Trump.

Racial divisions tore Americans apart in the Civil War, and during Reconstruction, the Depression, the evil days of segregation, Jim Crow and lynching, and after the passage of the major civil rights laws, against which the right has been fighting since they were signed.

Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The conservative justices on the Supreme Court deepened the problem when they gutted the Voting Rights Act in 2013, and Republican-controlled legislatures swiftly enacted new laws to drive away minority voters, especially in the South.

President Obama was gracious on Wednesday morning, saying he was heartened by Trumps talk of unity. (We will have to see whether thats the usual message of unity from the right, which translates as Agree with us and were happy to include you.)

We all go forward with a presumption of good faith in our fellow citizens, Obama said.

He was right. In fact, his election should have proved that. But the intolerant right never gave him that benefit of the doubt, and race was at the core of their response. Trump created his political platform by trying to destroy the legitimacy of Obamas presidency on racial and jingoistic grounds.

The Supreme Court is likely lost now for generations, since Trump will get one and probably two choices for that body. The entire Washington government is in the grip of a new and frightening Republican Party. Hard-won rights may well be lost, especially for women and minorities.

It would be easy to be consumed with anger, and I am. It would be easy to walk away. But Obama was right. This is a moment to stay engaged, and to fight back.

As the Texas politician Jim Hightower wrote, striving for democracy is bone-wearying agonizing, frustrating, cruel, bloody and often deadly work.

Democrats and others alienated by this election will need to find leaders who will make far better candidates than Hillary Clinton ever was. There will be a Congressional election in two years, and a governing coalition that depends almost entirely on aggrieved whites cannot long endure.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The important thing to know is that you are wanted, Hightower said. You are needed. You are important. You are not only what democracy counts on, you are what democracy is.

*On Nov. 8, Ill have a decision, said Representative Joe Heck of Nevada, whos running in a tight race for an open Senate seat. Recently, hes taken to pointing out that we have a secret ballot in this country. Thats certainly true, but our forefathers didnt invent it to protect members of Congress from revealing what they think of the top of their very own ticket.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Senator Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire, another Republican in a difficult re-election fight, says shes going to write in Mike Pence for president. You have to appreciate her predicament. During one debate, Ayotte made the mistake of saying, in a super-vague way, that Trump might be a good example for American children. (I think that certainly there are many role models that we have, and I believe he can serve as president.) She had to issue a retraction.

But this business of making up candidates to vote for is pathetic. Have you ever watched a big TV singing contest? How do you think viewers would react if it got down to a pitched battle between a crazy saxophonist who couldnt follow the music and a disciplined but slightly boring guitarist  and the celebrity panel announced that the winner was Plcido Domingo?

Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Really, this is pretty much the same thing. Ohio Gov. John Kasich claims hes already voted for John McCain. McCain, who has his own re-election race to deal with, said he may write in his old friend Senator Lindsey Graham. This is literally throwing away your vote since neither Arizona nor Ohio counts write-ins for people who havent registered as candidates.

Can you see how ridiculous this is? The write-in dodge might be appropriate for 20-year-olds who want to demonstrate their moral superiority to the system. But a career politician holding high office knows perfectly well that unless you vote for one of the two major party candidates, youre not taking part in the most important decision the American public ever makes.

How could you trust a senator to make a principled stand on the budget if she cant even bring herself to choose a president?

Thirty-four states have Senate races this year, but most of them involve incumbents so safe they could not be dislodged by a rocket launcher. (A prominent New York City Democrat told me he went to a meeting of party regulars the other night where a number of attendees were surprised to hear that Chuck Schumer was up for re-election.)

On the other hand, virtually everybody seems to agree that one current Republican senator, Mark Kirk of Illinois, is probably doomed, doomed, doomed. Kirk won Barack Obamas old seat in the big anti-Democratic upheaval of 2010. Since then, hes made news by referring to his unmarried colleague Lindsey Graham as a bro with no ho. Recently, in a debate with his Democratic opponent, Tammy Duckworth, Kirk took the interesting tack of making fun of Duckworths heritage.

Id forgotten that your parents came all the way from Thailand to serve George Washington, he sniped. Duckworths mother is Thai and her father comes from a family with a military history that goes back to the American Revolution. Have we mentioned shes an Iraq war veteran who lost both legs in a helicopter crash?

Kirk has been running desperately away from Donald Trump, who he says is too bigoted and racist. You would think this is one case where a Republican with little to lose would figure that its time to take a stand and admit that although he disagrees with Hillary Clinton on tons of issues, shes the only presidential candidate who has the capacity to protect the nations basic security and safety.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But no. At one point Kirk claimed he was going to vote for former C.I.A. director David Petraeus.

Swing state Republican voters, if youve got a hot Senate race involving two unsatisfactory candidates, consider just writing in Thomas Jefferson. Hes not alive, but nobodys perfect.

*I know these things well because I learned them the hard way during my years as a political opposition leader in Mr. Putins Russia. None of these things are happening to Donald Trump.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After I retired from professional chess in 2005, I helped form an opposition coalition, known as Other Russia, to protest Mr. Putins increasingly dictatorial regime. According to the Russian Constitution, Mr. Putin was unable to stand for a second re-election as president in 2008, and it wasnt clear what would happen to a power structure that had become completely centered on one man. If Mr. Putin ignored the Constitution completely and simply stayed on openly as a dictator, he risked alienating the Group of 8 world leaders who had agreed to pretend he was a fellow democrat.

The Other Russia opposition coalition had live debates, policy papers, platforms  all the things that were absent from the official elections, where the only thing that mattered was who had the Kremlins blessing. Rather to my surprise, in 2007 I was the winner of the national primary to choose the coalitions presidential candidate.

Once I had been selected in a real election that wasnt official, it was time for me to participate in an official election that was completely fake.

In order to do this, I had to jump through the official and unofficial hoops that had been put in place to prevent unapproved candidates from making it onto a ballot. Two million signatures were needed from all over the country in just one month, a task made even more herculean by the sheer size of Russia. A nominating congress had to be held, an apparently simple chore that became impossible when no hotel would rent a suitable space to us. Even American-owned hotel chains mysteriously canceled our reservations.

While I traveled across the country to campaign, we would find venues suddenly closed for repairs, our flights canceled, our meetings shut down by the police. Nor did I quite manage to stay out of jail, spending five days in a Moscow cell for participating in an unauthorized rally.

Rigging an election isnt only a matter of stuffing ballot boxes. It is not even that the people who cast the votes dont decide an election, the people who count the votes do, as the apocryphal quote attributed to Joseph Stalin has it. By the time the voting begins, the game is already over. Anyone who opposes the regime  from peaceful street protesters to the wealthiest man in the country  is targeted. The Russian businessman Mikhail Khodorkovsky spent a decade in prison for daring to support political groups outside of Mr. Putins control.

The fraud that does occur on Election Day is more about showing loyalty and getting the numbers just right to keep up appearances. Busloads of official voters go from polling station to polling station in a tradition we even have a name for: a carousel. Sheaves of ballots are dumped into urns while polling officials stand in the way to block the view. Sometimes, the excessive zeal of apparatchiks produces returns of more than 100 percent, as happens regularly in Russian regions like Chechnya.

To this day, I do not like the title former Russian presidential candidate because I knew at the start that my name would never appear on a ballot. The former prime minister Mikhail M. Kasyanov was allowed to progress one step further in his own independent run in 2008  before being disqualified two months later.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The only candidates allowed to run in the presidential election against Mr. Putins handpicked successor, the former prime minister Dmitri A. Medvedev, were the same token Communist and the same token nationalist who had been running in every election since the collapse of the Soviet Union. Mr. Medvedev got 71.2 percent, a tactful few tenths of a percentage point less than Mr. Putin received in 2004. Four years later, Mr. Medvedev again switched desks with Mr. Putin, who hadnt left power for a second regardless of his official title of prime minister. President Obama called Mr. Putin to congratulate him on his election victory, once again, as president.

Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

This is the modern dictatorship, savvy at using the free worlds terms and technology for its own ends. And when fake elections at home arent enough, an aggressive campaign of intimidation and disinformation abroad can be very useful. The Russian news leads every day with Mr. Trump and WikiLeaks and how they are supposedly exposing the corrupt reality of American democracy. Mr. Putin can no longer pretend to be a democratic leader, so his goal is to drag everyone else down to his level  and he is doing it with Mr. Trumps help.

A democracy is as strong as its people believe it to be. It cannot be destroyed from the outside, only from within.

*Photo

This could be a record year for transportation ballot proposals, because local politicians and voters have realized that Congress is not coming to rescue Americas aging bridges, roads and transit systems. On Nov. 8, there will be about 45 ballot proposals across the country that could raise nearly $200 billion for transportation improvements.

Many local officials say they have no choice but to raise taxes to invest in transportation, especially in mass transit, because their highways are clogged and more people are moving to cities. In Seattle, for example, the average commuter wasted an estimated 63 hours a year stuck in traffic in 2014, up from 44 hours in 2010, according to the Texas A&M Transportation Institute. It is no surprise that voters faced with worsening conditions have approved more than two-thirds of the local transportation proposals since 2000, according to the American Public Transportation Association.

Spending on Roads and Rails 1956-2014, in billions of 2014 dollars. HIGHWAYS MASS TRANSIT/ RAIL 125 State and local funding 118 100 75 State and local $82 53 50 46 25 16 Federal funding 8 $10 Federal 0 60 70 80 90 00 10 60 70 80 90 00 10 $150 125 HIGHWAYS MASS TRANSIT/RAIL 118 State and local funding 100 75 $82 State and local 53 Federal funding 50 46 25 16 Federal 8 $10 0 60 70 80 90 00 10 60 70 80 90 00 10

The federal government used to offer more aid but has pulled back over the last few decades. In 2014, only about 27 percent of the public money spent on highways, mass transit and rail came from Washington, down from a high of 35 percent in 1980, according to the Congressional Budget Office.

For years, many local and state governments failed to pick up the slack when the money from Washington dried up. Lawmakers didnt push for higher taxes, fearing a backlash from voters. This has had terrible consequences, as major systems, like the Washington Metro, Bostons T and New Jersey Transit, shortchanged maintenance budgets and suffered high-profile accidents, shutdowns and other problems. Only this month did New Jersey agree to raise its gas tax by 23 cents a gallon to help pay for improvements, the first such increase since 1988.

Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The ballot proposals this year would raise local sales, property and other taxes and use the money to develop new rail systems and dedicated bus lanes for communities without public transit, as well as repair existing infrastructure. The most ambitious of these efforts is Los Angeles Countys Measure M, which will raise the local sales tax and spend $120 billion over 40 years on expanding mass transit and fixing highways and bridges. Seattle will vote on an initiative called ST3 that will expand train and bus lines over 25 years for about $54 billion. Officials in the San Francisco area are asking voters to spend $3.5 billion to rebuild the aging Bay Area Rapid Transit system. There are also transportation proposals in Atlanta; Broward County, Fla.; Columbus, Ohio; Detroit; Indianapolis; and Wake County, N.C.



Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Cities like Dallas, Denver, Phoenix and Salt Lake City offer some good examples of the progress possible when money flows to mass transit. And in car-centric Southern California, Los Angeles Metro has built an extensive network. Residents in that county voted in 1980 to dedicate money from a half-cent sales tax to bus and train service. The system now has 105 miles of rail and serves 1.5 million riders every day. If more than two-thirds of voters now say yes to Measure M, a 1-cent sales tax will pay for 100 more miles of rail. The tax will pose a burden on the poor, but officials note that mass transit tends to benefit lower-income families by making it easier and cheaper for them to get to work. The strongest support for this is among the most transit-dependent, said the citys mayor, Eric Garcetti.

In an ideal world, the federal government would be doing more to support these local initiatives by, for example, providing matching funds. This would help cities like Los Angeles and Seattle and encourage others to expand existing systems. During this campaign season, Hillary Clinton, Donald Trump and some congressional candidates have talked a lot about improving infrastructure. It will be up to the next president and Congress to make good on those promises.

*Im not like my wife, who once waited in a long line at a community center to vote, only to find out that she was at the wrong location  so she drove four miles to the right booth and waited again.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As a citizen I feel guilty about my behavior. As an organizational psychologist, Im puzzled by it. There are many voters with strong opinions and maybe even preferred candidates but who, like me, simply dont show up to the polls regularly. Can people like me be nudged to the voting booth? Or do we need a push?

Voting seems to be a case of what social scientists call want-should conflict. I know Im supposed to watch Schindlers List, but its more fun to indulge in The Avengers. I realize I should eat the salad, but the pizza looks delicious. To borrow a turn of phrase from Mark Twain, I want to have voted, but I dont want to vote.

The first problem is that for many people, voting has little to do with their identities. Do I see myself as an American? Absolutely. Do I think we live in a great country? Of course. Ive shown my national pride in various ways. But it never occurred to me that voting could be one.

If we want people to vote, we need to make it a larger part of their self-image. In a pair of experiments, psychologists reframed voting decisions by appealing to peoples identities. Instead of asking them to vote, they asked people to be a voter. That subtle linguistic change increased turnout in California elections by 17 percent, and in New Jersey by 14 percent.

The reason is that nouns are more powerful than verbs. When I think about voting, I can skip it and still see myself as a good citizen. But when I think about being a voter, now the choice reflects on my character. It casts a shadow.

Even as a newly minted voter, I run into a second barrier: the belief that my vote doesnt make a difference. The way campaigns normally attack this problem is to sound the alarm about close elections like Bush versus Gore in 2000 or the narrow victory for the Leave side in Brexit.

Sadly, warnings about low voter turnout dont work. Research suggests that when people hear that others arent voting, they dont bother to vote either. Rather than try to highlight the benefits of voting, some countries are raising the costs of not voting.

At least two dozen countries have implemented mandatory voting with fines or community service for those who fail to comply  with major increases in turnout. In Australia, for example, compulsory voting increased average turnout to 91 percent from 67 percent.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It wasnt just turnout that changed. Results did, as well. When Anthony Fowler, a public policy professor at the University of Chicago, examined the Australian results, required turnout had a large effect on the outcome  a gain of between 7 and 10 percent for the Labor Party.

Democracies with voluntary voting do not represent the preferences of all citizens, he concluded. Increased voter turnout can dramatically alter election outcomes and resulting public policies.

Punishing nonvoters probably wont fly in the United States, but theres another way to make us pay for not voting: shame. Political scientists have done this, increasing the probability of voting by more than eight percentage points by sending letters stating that voting is a matter of public record and their decision on whether or not to vote will be shared with their neighbors.

Then we run into a third problem. Even if we identify as voters and want our neighbors to like us, were too busy. To get me to vote, you need to clear the obstacles out of my way. Making calls to encourage people to vote has been shown to have little impact. Helping people make a simple plan for when and where theyll vote can increase turnout by 9 percent.

Unfortunately, the failure to vote falls along class lines. In 2012, more than 80 percent of Americans with an annual income over $150,000 turned out to vote, compared with less than half of people earning under $20,000. They arent negligent: People who are paid hourly or juggle multiple jobs cant afford to miss work and stand in long lines to vote. And this group includes a large number of racial minorities  precisely the people that the civil rights movement was undertaken to help.

What if we made it easier for them?

Countries like Estonia and Switzerland have opened up internet voting. Although there are privacy and hacking concerns, it would help if people could vote from their phones, computers and PlayStations.

But in the spirit of patriotism, I think we should go further. Lets make Election Day a federal holiday (or at least a company holiday). In the spirit of nouns over verbs, call it Voter Day.

If I had the day off, and knew everyone else was voting, I wouldnt miss it. It would become a routine part of my responsibility as a citizen  like paying taxes, only less soul crushing. We can take a cue from a recent study on enticing people to the gym. Many people intend to exercise but just dont enjoy it. In an experiment designed to change that, social scientists visited a university gym. They gave out iPods loaded up with some riveting audiobooks.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But there was a catch: The iPods were locked at the gym, so the subjects had to show up for a workout to enjoy listening to Harry Potter or The Hunger Games. Over seven weeks, students, faculty and staff averaged 27 percent more visits to the gym than a control group.

Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

We can do something similar for voting. Set up a county fair at the polls. Offer dancing and games, and people might be excited to roll in and enjoy the festivities. Voter parties, here we come.

More than half a century ago, the philosopher Isaiah Berlin distinguished between two kinds of liberty  the freedom from constraints and the freedom to make choices. Im all for giving people the freedom to choose whether they want to vote (and then trying to nudge them toward yes). But if we want a truly democratic election, we also need to free our citizens from the constraints that prevent them from becoming voters.

*Across many decades and hundreds of campaigns at every level of government, L.G.B.T. rights have been a point of bitter debate, often benefiting Republican politicians in conservative areas where voters pushed back at social change. In recent years, though, Democrats have increasingly sought to turn their advocacy for L.G.B.T. people into an advantage.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Public opinion polls leave no doubt that a significant majority of Americans support laws protecting L.G.B.T. people from discrimination and approve of same-sex marriage. But that doesnt mean that they prioritize the issue and punish politicians with contrary views. The results of many elections suggest that they dont.

I think thats changing, and 2016 could be the proof of it. In several closely fought races around the country, candidates actions and comments regarding gay people have come to the fore and come to define them. Murphys contest against John Mica, now in his 12th term, is only one of them.

The outcomes of two of the most competitive gubernatorial contests  in Indiana and North Carolina  could be affected by voters feelings about how the candidates have handled L.G.B.T. rights. Thats especially true in North Carolina, where Gov. Pat McCrory is being hammered for a shockingly regressive measure that he signed into law last March.

It hallucinated some grave public danger in transgender peoples using public restrooms that correspond to their gender identity, banned them from doing so, and then went even further, nullifying local ordinances that outlawed employment and housing discrimination against gay and lesbian people.

I believe that he started this in order to stir up his right wing and to win this election, said his Democratic challenger, Roy Cooper, the states attorney general, when I spoke with him last week. But its backfired on him because its backfired on the state.

In protest of the law, PayPal nixed plans to build a major new operations center in Charlotte. The National Basketball Association relocated an all-star game from North Carolina to another state. Business groups moved conventions. Performers canceled concerts.

It has cost us thousands of jobs and hundreds of millions of dollars, Cooper told me. And it has tarnished McCrorys carefully tended image as a common-sense, pro-business governor.

Cooper presses the issue all the time, including in a recent debate against McCrory. Polls in August showed him ahead by one to nine points.

Photo

That really is a new day, JoDee Winterhof, the senior vice president for policy and political affairs at the Human Rights Campaign, told me.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As more business leaders stand up for L.G.B.T. rights, which they deem important to assembling the best work force and burnishing their brands, more politicians find that their own positions can have a serious impact on their relationship with the corporate community. Being against L.G.B.T. rights can complicate any claims they make to being champions of economic growth. It can also depress financial contributions to their campaigns.

Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Just look at the congressional race in northern New Jersey between Scott Garrett, the Republican incumbent, and Josh Gottheimer, a Democrat.

A little over a year ago, Politico revealed that Garrett was refusing to give what is generally a pro forma donation to the National Republican Congressional Committee because it backed openly gay candidates.

Although Garrett had always had close ties with Wall Street, several big financial institutions stopped donating to his campaign, and that could put Gottheimer, a fund-raising whirlwind, on a more equal footing with him than Democratic challengers in previous election cycles. Partly for that reason, political handicappers envision a potentially close contest between him and Garrett, who got at least 55 percent of the vote in 2010 and 2012.

Gottheimer said that news coverage of Garretts tussle with his fellow Republicans over gay candidates brought into the light a host of extremely conservative positions  on everything from equal pay and abortion rights to the Confederate flag and global warming  that many of his constituents werent wholly aware of.

It has also become a yardstick of Garretts humanity. Thats how I increasingly notice L.G.B.T. rights playing out among many voters in the center. Its a marker. A metaphor.

It has power on its own, too. In a recent interview in Paramus, N.J., Gottheimer told me that when his campaign did a poll testing which of Garretts conservative positions bothered the largely suburban districts voters the most, This issue was above everything else.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I would have guessed that this would do well with more Democratic-leaning voters, he said. But, he added, The whole middle and middle-right were equally offended by this.

Karen Gerbatsch, 64, a registered Republican who has voted repeatedly for Garrett, told me that when she heard about his disapproval of gay candidates, she thought, Thats not me.

It bothered me a lot, she added. She said that shell vote for Gottheimer, but cited additional reasons, chief among them her concern about the current crop of Washington Republicans amassing too much power, especially if Donald Trump happens to win the presidency.

Photo

Its impossible to isolate the impact of L.G.B.T. rights from other factors in these races. Gottheimer, who worked as a speechwriter for President Bill Clinton, is connected to an extensive network of powerful Democrats who have rallied to his cause, and hes an astute, poised first-time candidate who, at 41, promises a freshness that Garrett, 57, cannot.

Murphy, another first-time candidate, is competing in a district that the Florida Supreme Court recently redrew so that its younger and more Democratic than it was in past elections. Odds makers still give Mica the advantage.

She has an inspiring family story: Her parents fled the Communists in Vietnam by boat when she was just 6 months old. After the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, she abandoned a lucrative consulting career in the private sector to work for the Department of Defense. She now teaches at Rollins College in Winter Park, which abuts Orlando. She has two young children. And she presents herself  eloquently  as an alternative to Congresss entrenched ways.

When Trump visited Orlando last month to speak to a conference of leaders who adamantly oppose L.G.B.T. rights, she blasted her opponent, Mica, for having endorsed him and presented a litany of Micas anti-gay positions and remarks across the years.

Two weeks later, she was the first candidate to be endorsed by a new political action committee called the Pride Fund to End Gun Violence, which will raise money for politicians supportive of both L.G.B.T. rights and gun control.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Jason Lindsay, the founder and executive director of the Pride Fund, told me that in several visits to Orlando, he has been struck by the sheer determination of gays and lesbians there. The Pulse attack was incredibly personal, he said.

Murphy cited Pulse to me when she noted that Mica had opposed the inclusion of any reference to sexual orientation in federal hate-crimes legislation. How can you have that position given what has happened? she said.

His positions, she said, have been extreme and exclusionary.

At Pulse, I was struck by something that hadnt been clear to me in news coverage right after the shooting. This gay nightclub shared its stretch of a prominent thoroughfare with a Dunkin Donuts, a Radio Shack and, directly across the street, a Wendys, with its logo of a pigtailed, red-haired, freckled girl.

It wasnt off in the shadows but right in the mix  which is where L.G.B.T. people are today, and where L.G.B.T. rights are in the 2016 election.

*Photo

President Obamas speech before the Democratic convention in Philadelphia Wednesday night was, of course, an occasion to celebrate the candidacy of Hillary Clinton, his former secretary of state and the first woman to receive the presidential nomination of a major political party.

His presence on the podium was also a valedictory for an exceptional man and president who will be remembered for eloquently defending the founding precepts of the country  even as he used those precepts to expand the mandate of inclusiveness and broaden the definition of what it means to be an American.

From that standpoint, the Obama presidency has been transformative  perhaps even miraculous. But the very idea of a black man in the White House was too much to bear for white supremacists, birthers and the antigovernment militia groups that have only grown more savage over time. The Republican nominee, Donald Trump, traded openly on these impulses, amping up the racism, xenophobia and religious bigotry that have poisoned public discourse in this nation.



Wednesday nights beautiful and emotional speech came 12 years after Mr. Obama, then a Senate candidate from Illinois, delivered the keynote address at the Democratic convention in Boston that brought him into the national spotlight. As he did then, Mr. Obama laid out his personal history, the son of a black Kenyan and a white American, and sounded the theme that has been common to his orations ever since: that the progress of American history is toward the creation of one people  out of many, one.

Steadfast optimism about the countrys ability to move past racial division even in times of tragedy and desperation is a constant theme in Mr. Obamas philosophy. And this year  with rising fears about terrorism and the killings by and of police officers  has been such a time.

He turned again on Wednesday to that long view, one that has always animated the American spirit. The America I know is full of courage, and optimism, and ingenuity. The America I know is decent and generous, he said. We get frustrated with political gridlock and worry about racial divisions; we are shocked and saddened by the madness of Orlando or Nice. There are pockets of America that never recovered from factory closures; men who took pride in hard work and providing for their families who now feel forgotten. Parents who wonder whether their kids will have the same opportunities that we have.

All of that is real; we are challenged to do better; to be better. But as Ive traveled this country, through all 50 states; as Ive rejoiced with you and mourned with you, what I have also seen, more than anything, is what is right with America.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He said those words, knowing that throughout history it has always been easier to drive Americans apart, to stoop to the language of hate and peddle scapegoats for every ill.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

At the very start of his journey to the White House, he delivered a speech on race in 2008. He placed his story in the context of a great nation born with a great moral failing, one that seemed impossible to correct: Words on a parchment would not be enough to deliver slaves from bondage, or provide men and women of every color and creed their full rights and obligations as citizens of the United States. What would be needed were Americans in successive generations who were willing to do their part  through protests and struggle, on the streets and in the courts, through a civil war and civil disobedience and always at great risk  to narrow that gap between the promise of our ideals and the reality of their time.

Mr. Obama said then that he ran for office to continue the long march of those who came before us and to convince the country that we could perfect our union by understanding that we may have different stories, but we hold common hopes.

In his eight years in the White House  an entire lifetime for youngsters who have only known a president who is black  Mr. Obama wasnt able to heal the racial and political divisions despite his efforts and his leadership. He has expressed his regret and disappointment about that failure. But a fundamental truth of history is that change comes slowly and is often recognizable only in retrospect.

*You see him teasing, bantering or dancing with his wife of nearly a quarter-century. And while no outsider can know what goes on inside anothers marriage, you cant help feeling some of the joy of that union. They still finish each others sentences.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its not fair to give him his due as a person, his high grade for character, for being scandal-free in his private life, just because a potential successor has no character, no class, and breaches a new wall of civility every time he opens his mouth. If Obama had bragged about infidelities and the size of his genitals, if Obama had talked about wanting to date his own daughter and reduced women to a number on a hotness scale, it would be about race. But when Donald Trump says such things, nobody ties it to his being white, nor should they. Trump is a singular kind of vulgarian.

And those who praise Obama as a model father or husband for the black family do him a disservice. Hes a model, without asterisk for race. Its a hard thing to go nearly eight years as the most powerful man in the world without diminishing the office or alienating your family. Hes done that, and added a dash of style and humor and a pitch-perfect sense for being consoler in chief.

As we saw again this week, when he took the deep breath for us, when he begged us not to let hearts turn to stone when the world is a quarry of hate, he is at his best when the rest of us are at our worst. We will long remember him singing Amazing Grace at that service for people slaughtered in a Charleston church, their deaths a hate crime. And we may well remember him trying to wring something teachable from the ambush of police officers; their deaths also a hate crime.

All of us, we make mistakes, he said. And at times we are lost. And as we get older, we learn we dont always have control of things  not even a president does. But we do have control over how we respond to the world. We do have control over how we treat one another.

Historical comparisons will be kind to him. You respect John F. Kennedy for his flair and wit, but wince at how he hurt his wife through numerous affairs. You admire Lyndon B. Johnson for his courage in civil rights, but are appalled at how bathroom-level bawdy he was in private. You appreciate Ronald Reagan for his charm and friendships across the aisle, but cant ignore how dysfunctional his family was. Under Richard Nixon, the White House was a crime scene. Under Bill Clinton, it was a place of monumental self-indulgence.

Whats remarkable is that Obama hasnt turned Nixonian or hard. He was the only president to have his Americanism challenged, the only president to be heckled with You lie! before a joint session of Congress. And the smears keep coming. Barely a week ago, Fox News flashed pictures of a young Obama attending his African half brothers wedding in Muslim garb  proof, Bill OReilly said, of the presidents deep emotional ties to Islam.

For Obama, holding it together as a person has only occasionally translated to political triumph. The first African-American president is leaving office at a moment when more than two-thirds of Americans think race relations are bad  a sharp increase from the dawn of his presidency. He acknowledged some of this failure in Dallas.

Now, Im not nave, he said. Ive seen how inadequate words can be in bringing about lasting change. Ive seen how inadequate my own words have been.

On eleven occasions  Newtown, Tucson, Charleston, Dallas, among the venues of despair  hes tried to summon words to heal a wound. If the words have sometimes failed him and us, the man, in his personal behavior, has not.

*But politicians may be selling voters a bill of goods about how much their presidential pick really matters. Candidates spend a lot of time talking about tax plans and income growth  instead of the issues they could actually directly control in the White House. The economy is the issue the public cares the most about, but perhaps the one that presidents have the least power over.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

There is a longstanding trend that has baffled researchers and Republicans alike: Since World War II, the economy has consistently performed better under Democratic administrations than under Republican ones, no matter how one measures its performance. Why? Its mostly about luck.

In two different papers, the economists Alan S. Blinder and Mark Watson found that the strength or weakness of the economy was mostly related to factors out of a presidents hands, such as oil-price spikes that crimp consumer spending and often precede a recession, productivity growth and a rosy international economic picture. Higher consumer confidence also helps, which may be affected by the president, but thats a much less direct outcome than, say, tax changes.

Presidents do influence those factors, of course. Starting a war in the Middle East will affect oil prices. Government can help foster new industries and technologies  say, the internet  that can alter productivity. But there are other big items under presidential purview that the studies found that dont have any impact, such as the size of the federal deficit or spending on the military.

A closer look at history reveals these patterns. President Dwight D. Eisenhower is known for his investment in the nations highway system, but the economy he oversaw benefited more from lessons in productivity that companies learned during the war, and the adoption of new technologies. President Ronald Reagan is lionized for his tax cuts and deregulation, but it was the Federal Reserves fight against inflation that had the biggest impact. President Bill Clinton oversaw robust economic growth, but we have the rise of the internet and other factors outside of his control to thank.

There are also clearly presidential policy pushes that have more marginal, but important, consequences. Tax policy can either exacerbate or reduce income inequality, for example, which has been found to slow economic growth. Presidential appointments to agencies like the Federal Reserve and Department of Labor are crucial. Without the stimulus package pushed and signed by President Obama, the economy would almost certainly have fallen further into recession and taken far longer to crawl back out.

This also means that the person who is sworn into office in January will have at least some consequence for the economy. If its Mr. Trump, hes made it clear that his top priorities will be trade and immigration policy. The details of his plans often shift, and depending on what course of action he takes on trade he could either help the economy by going after Chinas currency manipulation or end up costing the country millions of jobs by starting a trade war. Reducing the flow of immigrants would certainly be terrible for the economy.

If Mrs. Clinton becomes president, it seems likely that first on her agenda will be pushing for national paid family leave, a minimum-wage increase and more government spending on things like infrastructure projects to create jobs. Paid family leave can keep people in the work force and even expand it. A bump in the minimum wage can put more money in peoples pockets and stimulate the economy  without, most likely, costing jobs. Infrastructure spending has been found to generate significant economic growth.

But both candidates need Congress to get these things done. The number of new laws enacted by recent Congresses has been steadily on the decline for some time. To get at least something accomplished, President Obama has been turning to his executive power. But the change that can be wrought through those orders is much smaller; rather than being able to raise the minimum wage on his own, for instance, he can do so only for government contractors. And those orders can always be reversed.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Even the stimulus, one of the most important economic accomplishments of the Obama administration, was hampered by concerns about what Congress would accept. Theres good reason to think that if the package had been larger, growth and jobs would have rebounded faster and wed be in a better position today. But the administration knew there wouldnt be political appetite for a larger number, so it was shorn down.

Whatever influence the president may have at times wielded over the economy is diminishing. With a gridlocked Congress, presidents are less and less able to push through enormous legislative changes that would substantially shift the course of the economy.

The perception that the president deserves either credit or blame for whatever the economy is doing is still strong. And therefore it matters for both candidates that they will almost certainly take the helm of a much stronger economy than the one Mr. Obama inherited. There are reasons for Americans to feel that the economy has a long way to go toward full recovery, such as stagnant wage growth, but its hard to deny the strength of an unemployment rate below 5 percent.

Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

So although he or she wont deserve it, the occupant of the White House will get some credit for strong economic performance at the outset. What happens after that will be mostly out of the presidents hands.

*The Sanders campaign has had a galvanizing effect for many people, on social media and in real life. On Tuesday, Hillary Clinton claimed the Democratic nomination. In a speech after her victory in New Jersey, Mrs. Clinton noted the "milestone" the country had reached  and implored supporters of Mr. Sanders to join her. Those supporters have to figure out if that is what they'll do. In their own words, here is where Mr. Sanderss most dedicated fans plan to take the political revolution next.

In conversations I had with more than a dozen Sanders supporters, many of them told me they were either disillusioned with or apathetic toward politics before this campaign. Mr. Sanders, a 74-year-old democratic socialist from Vermont, energized them unlike any candidate before. Now, theyll either resign themselves to voting for Hillary Clinton, redirect their efforts to local campaigns or drop out again.

While a few die-hard Sanders supporters have vowed that its Bernie or bust, a Quinnipiac University poll from late May found that three-quarters of Sanders supporters would vote for Mrs. Clinton if it came down to a Donald Trump-Hillary Clinton race in November. Alex Sheehan, 29, a digital media entrepreneur in New York, said he thought that when faced with the prospect of a Trump presidency, most Sanders supporters would end up voting for Mrs. Clinton  and If not, we deserve the catastrophic failure that follows, he said.

Ive said it in jest that if its Hillary versus Trump, I will go into the voting booth and Snapchat myself voting for Trump for performance art. But I wouldnt really do that, he said. He paused. Maybe I am a Bernie bro!

*It depends on what Mr. Trump wants to do. His signature issues are immigration and trade. He could not build the Mexican wall without congressional support. But he could order immigration authorities to deport unauthorized immigrants.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And he could bar Muslims from entering the country under existing law, which authorizes him to bar classes of aliens whose entry he determines would be detrimental to the interests of the United States. It wouldnt be the first time: President Ronald Reagan cited this law, as well as his inherent constitutional powers, to block a flood of Haitian migrants from pouring into United States territory in 1981.

Can he slap tariffs on China, as he has threatened? Yes, he can. Congress has delegated to the president the power to retaliate against foreign countries that engage in unfair trade practices like dumping, leaving it to the president and trade officials to determine what that means. In 2002, President George W. Bush imposed steel tariffs on China and other countries for what many observers considered political reasons.

The World Trade Organization ruled the steel tariffs illegal in that case. But Mr. Trump could simply ignore its judgment, and indeed withdraw the United States from the W.T.O., just as President Bush withdrew the United States from the Antiballistic Missile Treaty in 2002. While hes at it, Mr. Trump could tear up the North Atlantic Treaty, which created NATO, an organization that he has called obsolete.

In May, Mr. Trump vowed to rescind President Obamas environmental policies. He would be able to do that as well. He could disavow the Paris climate change agreement, just as President Bush unsigned a treaty creating an international criminal court in 2002. He could choke off climate regulations that are in development and probably withdraw existing climate regulations. Even if a court blocked him, he could refuse to enforce the regulations, just as Mr. Obama refused to enforce immigration laws.

In wielding executive power in these ways, Mr. Trump would be following in the footsteps of his predecessors. President Bush cited his commander in chief powers in order to justify interrogation, surveillance and detention polices in the wake of Sept. 11. While Mr. Obama has shied away from Mr. Bushs constitutional arguments, he has interpreted statutes aggressively, while also relying on constitutional authorities, to justify the military intervention in Libya in 2011 and his nonenforcement of immigration laws.

Mr. Trump has expressed impatience with his critics and hinted that he would use federal powers against them. He wouldnt be able to put someone in jail merely for criticizing him. But he could direct agencies to use their vast regulatory powers against the companies of executives who have displeased him, like Jeff Bezos, for example, the founder of Amazon. Mr. Trump has already hinted that he would go after Amazon for supposed antitrust violations.

He could direct the Department of Justice to investigate his critics by prioritizing categories of crimes they may have committed. Political opponents could be accused of campaign finance law violations. Former government officials, like Hillary Clinton, could be accused of violating secrecy laws. Even if the charges come to nothing, the legal fees for defendants will be hefty.

Mr. Trump could also crack down on journalists who report on national security issues by enforcing federal secrecy laws more aggressively than previous presidents. President Obama received a lot of criticism for prosecuting government employees who leaked secrets, but the Justice Department did not bring charges against the journalists who published the leaked information.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

What couldnt Mr. Trump do? He couldnt lower (or raise) taxes on his own. Hes supposed to spend funds that Congress appropriates and for the things that Congress appropriates them for  thats what stands in the way of the wall (unless he persuades Mexico to pay for it and construct it on the other side of the border).

He could not follow through on his promise to impose the death penalty on killers of police officers by executive order. And even where he does act, he needs to make sure his legal theories are in order. If he wanted to withdraw climate regulations because climate change is a hoax perpetuated by China, no court would allow him to. But if he said that the climate regulations were based on a speculative assessment of harms that wouldnt occur for 100 years, he could succeed.

Much depends on how far Mr. Trump is willing to push existing legal understandings. There is a netherworld of laws that presidents are supposed to comply with but courts dont enforce. He could send military forces into a foreign country without authorization from Congress; courts would most likely stay out of the dispute. What of his suggestion earlier this year to kill the families of terrorists? Courts typically defer to the executive on matters concerning military activities abroad. He might even try to withhold appropriated funds or shift them around in defiance of Congresss wishes.

What, then, stands between us and a nearly unbounded Mr. Trump, aside from the next election? Senators McCain and McConnell say Congress, but only a veto-proof majority in both houses, passing new laws, could stop Mr. Trump from exercising the legal authority that Congress has already given the president. Congress can threaten to withhold funds, but the presidents powers to veto legislation and appoint government officers give him a large bargaining chip. Removal of a president by impeachment is extremely difficult; it has never happened.

The courts are another barrier, but they would need to reverse their longstanding practice of deferring to the president in matters of foreign affairs and domestic regulation. The Supreme Court could, for example, declare an entry bar on Muslims unconstitutional. But its hard to predict how Mr. Trump would respond. After a federal judge, Gonzalo Curiel, ruled against him on a motion in the long-running Trump University litigation, Mr. Trump called him a hater and a Mexican (Judge Curiel is an American).

Mr. Trumps biggest obstacle to vast power is not the separation of powers but the millions of federal employees who are supposed to work for him. Most of these employees have a strong sense of professionalism and are dedicated to the mission of their agency. They dont take kindly to arbitrary orders from above. As President Harry Truman said ahead of Dwight D. Eisenhowers presidency: Hell sit here, and hell say, Do this! Do that! And nothing will happen.

To make things happen, Mr. Trump will need to get loyalists into leadership positions of the agencies, but to do so, he will need the cooperation of the Senate (or he will need to aggressively exploit his recess appointment powers). Moreover, the small number of politically appointed leaders enjoy only limited control of the mass of civil servants. These employees can drag their feet, leak to the press, threaten to resign and employ other tactics to undermine Mr. Trumps initiatives if they object to them. Theyre also hard to fire, thanks to Civil Service protections.

Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

But Mr. Trump can fight back. He can appoint loyalists not only to political positions in the executive branch, but to the courts, and he may be able to attract them to the ranks of the Civil Service. And while executive branch officials who disregard the law might be prosecuted by the Justice Department, President Trump would have one more trick up his sleeve. Like President George H.W. Bush, who rescued Iran-contra defendants from punishment in 1992, he could hand out get-out-of-jail-free cards in the form of the pardon.

*A day later, Donald J. Trump showed up at the same place. His supporters, mostly older whites, clashed outside with protesters, mostly younger Latinos. All the Trump rally appeared to do was unleash a spasm of airborne hatred.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Sanders, by contrast, made his point about the great economic disparity in American life. His rallies in California  nearly two dozen in all  have drawn the expected crowds: young white Bernie bros in man buns, aging lefties in mildly subversive T-shirts  but also a fair amount of Hispanics and curious political neophytes.

So, mission accomplished, yes? The Bern has been felt, the establishment rattled. Voters are decrying a rigged economy run by 1-percenters. Time to go back to Vermont, resuming the virtual anonymity that has characterized his quarter-century in Congress.

Not so fast. The Bernistas and the candidate himself may be on something of a late-stage kamikaze mission. The 74-year-old senator is predicting a win here on Tuesday, and with it enough momentum to sway unpledged delegates at what he says will be a messy convention in Philadelphia.

That the math is overwhelmingly against him, or that hes now on a reckless venture, does not seem to matter. As Stephen Colbert noted, Sanders promised to campaign in all 50 states  51 if you count the state of denial. The fear among other Democrats is that the Bernie-or-bust crowd will bring Hillary Clinton down, either by leaving her badly weakened or by not voting at all in the fall. One poll in May showed that 20 percent of Sanders supporters would actually vote for Trump.

To this  a scenario that would produce a billionaire president who does not believe in climate change, and would build a police state to round up 11 million undocumented immigrants  many Sanders supporters respond with an agonized shrug.

I cannot, right now, bring myself to vote for Hillary Clinton, said Nora Belrose, who dropped her studies at Purdue to become a field organizer for Sanders in the Bay Area. She was getting ready to knock on doors in San Francisco, one of dozens of daily Sanders grass roots activities  from a Beers and Queers for Bernie event to a Bern the Mic hip-hop fund-raiser. Whether any of this will last longer than an Instagram video is another question.

Hillary is just too much about the money, said Robert Sturgeon, who is undecided for the general election. He used to work at a Hyundai dealership in Southern California, though he is now unemployed, and likes what he hears from Sanders.

His complaint about money is another issue that Sanders has forced the Democratic Party he now wants to lead to confront. The partys current leaders, says Sanders, are all about running around into rich peoples homes and raising money.

Photo

And if Clintons pattern of doing just that  in between rallies of her own with regular folks in California  is a concession to the age of dark money billionaires, the Bernie brigades want nothing to do with it.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It took a party elder, one of the original anti-establishment crusaders, Gov. Jerry Brown, to try to bring Democratic dead-enders back home  Moonbeam to ground control. This is no time for Democrats to keep fighting each other, the popular governor wrote on Tuesday, in an open letter announcing his support for Clinton.

Clintons delegate lead will most likely push her past the nomination threshold when voting ends in New Jersey on Tuesday  three hours before polls close in California. That margin is insurmountable, Brown wrote, leaving Clinton as the one to stop the dangerous candidacy of Donald Trump.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Brown hinted at not just the reality disconnect of Sanderss followers, but of something fundamentally undemocratic about the senators long-shot endgame. Clinton, no matter how you dice the numbers, has won approximately three million more votes than Sanders. Playing by the existing rules, she also has that insurmountable delegate lead. Sanders wants the much-loathed party establishment to ignore Clintons popular vote majority and award the nomination to him because of better poll numbers.

Do you trust the establishment media? asked Cenk Uygur, host of The Young Turks, an online news show. He posed this question at several Sanders rallies, warming up crowds with the closing pitch of the Bernie brigades.

Noooooooo!

The establishment media has been telling us that Hillary Clinton is the more electable candidate against Donald Trump. Find me one poll where Bernie is behind.

Indeed, Sanders has been crushing Trump in nearly all the recent matchups, while Clinton is barely ahead, or even losing in some. Clinton supporters argue that if the full force of Republican opposition were thrown at him  going after an aging socialist whose plans for free college and health care are no more thought out than a bumper sticker  hed wither. Its a debatable point.

If Sanders were to concede at last after Tuesday, even if he won California, he could boast of having moved the Democratic Party to the populist left.

On trade, his critique that global deals favor corporate interests at the expense of working people is ascendant. This may be his strongest argument for drawing in some of Trumps disaffected white voters, one that Clinton has already tried to incorporate into her campaign.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

His blasts at the money-and-lobbyist wing of his party have prompted many Democrats to take a long, hard look at who they are supposed to represent  a well-heeled, well-educated governing class, or something closer to the people at the lower end.

Rule changes are likely to come at the convention, with less power for superdelegates in the future, and more open primaries. And no doubt, what Sanders has set in motion is not going to curdle in Vermont after the convention.

If we lose California, weve still won, because Bernie has done something that nobody else has done this year  set the tone, said Dan ONeal, a Sanders delegate from Arizona, who was following his candidate around California. For ONeal, the fall election is personal: His stepdaughter, a Latina without citizenship, would face deportation under Trumps roundup plan.

ONeal says he would never vote for Trump, and he believes even the most zealous and self-righteous of Sanders supporters will come around on Clinton, united in their fear of a Trump presidency. Still, he wants to feel the Bern one more time on June 7.

As does the candidate. On Tuesday night, Sanders raced from a rally in Oakland to Oracle Arena, where the Golden State Warriors were in the midst of an unlikely comeback, after being down 3 games to 1.

A good omen for our campaign, he said after the Golden State victory put them in the N.B.A. finals. And when asked if his presence was the difference, he smiled at reporters, for once seeming to enjoy himself. What other explanation is there?

*Time passed. And he wouldnt say where the money went.

People, I know youre tired of hearing Donald Trump stories, but did you want the reporters to just drop the subject? Trump certainly did. Particularly when it came to his own personal million-dollar contribution, which did not actually materialize until the news media, particularly The Washington Post, started asking questions. Many questions. Which went unanswered.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Oh, Im totally accountable, but I didnt want to have credit for it, Trump said.

The money was turned over to a veterans charity about, um, a week ago.

We have heard a lot from Trump about his passion for veterans lately. Its an intense interest that goes back at least  a year. Before that, his major involvement with the military appeared to be getting a deferment for a foot thing when he was eligible for the draft during the war in Vietnam.

It is not unusual for presidential candidates to have avoided military service. Bill Clinton did. Bernie Sanders did. Most of Congress did. Dick Cheney got himself five deferments  and, O.K., when it came to Dick Cheney we took offense. But in general, weve gotten used to nonveterans as the political norm.

One of the very few major American politicians who did serve, under fire, is John McCain, and one of the first things Trump did in his race for president was to make fun of McCains years as a prisoner of war. (I like people who werent captured.) He also portrayed himself as a guy who had done way, way more to help veterans than John McCain, a claim that was  oh Lord, lets not even go there.

The donations to Trumps January fund-raiser were supposed to be distributed through the Donald J. Trump Foundation, which had been around for years without previously making veterans a priority, or even an afterthought.

We will not bother to point out that Donald J. Trump himself did not have a history of being a big donor to the Donald J. Trump Foundation. In fact, Trump never seemed to give much money to anybody. This appears to be one of the most tightfisted billionaires since Scrooge McDuck.

Unless hes not a billionaire at all. If Trump ever releases his tax records and it turns out that hes only worth, say, $755,000, hell deserve a big apology from those of us who thought he was a self-centered rich guy with zero interest in sharing his wealth with the less fortunate. Honestly, I will be the first to raise my hand.

But about the veterans. Trump brings up his commitment to our fighting men and women all the time now. Really, the only person he talks about more than the American soldier is Bobby Knight, the former basketball coach who is famous for roughing up his players and endorsing Donald Trump for president.

Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

On Memorial Day weekend, Trump spoke to a gathering of veterans and bikers in Washington, and managed to both drop Bobby Knights name and complain about the small crowd. I thought this would be like Dr. Martin Luther King, where the people will be lined up from here all the way to the Washington Monument, he said.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On Tuesday, Trump said he was just joking. Lets accept that at face value and agree that he simply made a humorous remark in which he compared himself to a slain civil rights leader.

He also insisted the media was conspiring to undercount the attendance: So instead of saying Trump made a speech in front of a packed crowd they said Trump was disappointed. Have we ever had a president who referred to himself in the third person? The answer, as a number of readers have been kind enough to point out is  yes! We had Richard Nixon.

See if that makes you feel any better.

*Officers detain suspect as part of enforcement operation in Los Angeles, Feb. 7, 2017. Courtesy Charles Reed / U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement via REUTERS

Let me be clear, I am no fan of President Trump's immigration rhetoric and recent immigration executive orders. But in looking at the recent immigration enforcement surge we need to take three deep breaths and separate known facts from speculation as we remain vigilant.

First, the facts. During the week of February 9, 2017 there was an Immigration Customs Enforcement (ICE) surge. Preliminary information from ICE indicates that this was a targeted enforcement sweep of immigrants defined as criminals.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Immigration Raids Across 6 States Draws Intense Backlash, Fear 2:08 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

Coordinated ICE sweeps targeting undocumented criminals are nothing new. Such surges took place routinely during the Obama administration.

For the sake of comparison let's zoom in on the Los Angeles sector - one of the most immigrant populous regions of the country. Less than a year ago, in mid July of 2016, 112 foreign nationals were apprehended in an ICE sweep targeting at-large criminals. About half of these individuals had felony convictions and the remaining had misdemeanors. Last week in the same Los Angeles sector, 160 foreign nationals were apprehended; of which 150 had criminal histories and five had final orders of removal.

RELATED: ICE Arrests Stir Fear in Immigrants Wary of Trump Orders

A quick comparison of the Los Angeles Sector ICE surge from July 2016 and February 2017 doesn't show a big difference. This most recent ICE surge looks like those in the past couple of years that have prioritized the removal of criminal foreign nationals. In the following weeks and months we will be better able to compare past and current apprehension rates but as it stands now the surge was a routine ICE operation.

The fact is that thus far we cannot say that the Trump administration is substantively doing anything differently than the Obama administration. Stylistically, though, Obama and Trump are worlds apart. President Obama did not publicize ICE surges, instead letting ICE carry out policy, whereas President Trump is highlighting the surge on twitter as his fulfillment of campaign promises.

More significantly, as with most things, the devil is in the details. An important fact is that under President Trump's executive order enhancing public safety in the interior of the U.S., the criminal status of an immigrant is not clear.

Under the Obama administration there was a prioritization of criminals with more violent offenders being top priorities. Under the Trump administration there does not seem to be a clear prioritization. This means that immigrants with a deportation order and no other criminal record could technically be classified as criminal.

One crucial thing to look at is whether the Trump administration will expand the definition of a criminal offense to include an immigrant with a traffic violation.

It is too early to know whether the Trump administration's expanded definition of criminal ends up targeting non-violent offenders and those who may just have a traffic violation.

Relatedly this expanded definition could quickly inflate the numbers of ICE deportations.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Were ICE raids routine, or a crackdown? 4:31 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

This may very well happen, but that is speculation based on his rhetoric rather than factual confirmation.

For better or worse, only time will tell if this speculation is correct.

RELATED: Arizona Woman Deported, Possibly the First Under Trump Immigration Orders

The point about not giving speculation too long a leash is that the most undeniable fact is that emotions and fear in the immigrant community are running high. This issue of deportation is one that tears apart families and that represents cultural, economic, and social uprooting.

Because of the delicate nature of this issue, we need to proceed with caution and not let speculation get the best of us.

Immigrants and immigrant advocates need to prepare for the worst, hope for the best, and in the meantime not let a paralyzing panic set in.

Follow NBC News Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

*LOS ANGELES  It is no accident that the November election galvanized California's Latino electorate as never before. Latinos were responding to a candidate who campaigned and was elected, at least in part, due to his rhetoric of fear, his scapegoating, and his appeal to a regrettableand untenableurge to turn back the clock on civil and human rights. Such destructive rhetoric does not represent our state and we believe that it has no place in this great nation.

As elected leaders in California and longtime public servants, we have a responsibility to represent the will of the people who elect us. What is their will? Obviously, California voters did not back the new President, but there is more to the story.

A recent poll commissioned by Resources Legacy Fund found that an overwhelming majority (85 percent) of Latinos in Los Angeles followed the presidential election closely.

More importantly, 24 percent of these voters cast ballots for the first time, an indication that the Latino share of the electorate is engaged and growing. More than 90 percent of Latinos in Los Angeles voted for a candidate other than Donald Trump, signaling a wide consensus against the tenor and rhetoric of his campaign.

Moreover, 76 percent paid attention to state and local ballot measures as well. 75 percent voted in favor of Measure A, a countywide parcel tax to pay for parks, demonstrating that Latinos have expectations of, and trust in, local government.

In our first steps after the election, the California Legislature and the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors affirmed our commitment to immigrants, regardless of their immigration status or religion.

We introduced and advanced measures to guarantee that anyone subject to deportation has access to legal representation and due process. We will also make sure that our state's institutions of learning are open to every young student, regardless of their immigration status. California, 39 million residents strong, will stand up for every Californian.

California has long been America's trendsetter, ever since it joined the Union in 1850. Our social, cultural, economic and demographic changes often foreshadow those of the nation as a whole.

Early on, the state established the University of California, which is now the nation's finest system of public higher education.

Governor Brown, during his first tenure in office decades ago, was mocked for his concern with the environment, but those early concerns have proven to be prescient. Brown has also made appointments to boost the numbers of women and people of color in key administration leadership roles.

That commitment to diversity has been around since California was born. The state's first constitution in 1849 mandated that all laws be published in Spanish and English. Diversity is in our DNA.

Our diversity fuels our economy, one of the world's largest and strongest. California's farms feed the nation through the labor of a largely Latino immigrant workforce. Silicon Valley leads the world in technology, driven not only by the best scientists and engineers America can produce, but also by the best minds from every continent. They come to California for our innovative businesses and universities, and because we put out a welcome mat at our borders, not a wall.

As a result, we have one of the most diverse populations in the world. California has the largest population of any state in the union and a majority of Californians are people of color - approximately 57 percent. Latinos alone make up nearly 40 percent of the state, and in Los Angeles County that figure approaches 50 percent. These are numbers that the rest of the nation is steadily trending toward.

We stand ready to meet whatever comes in the next four years with strong policies that will protect our state's diverse communities, our environment, and the values that already make our state and our nation great. The United States has time and again succeeded and grown stronger when its people worked together as Americans.

California is still America's trendsetter and its future. Mr. Trump might want to follow our lead.

Anthony Rendon is Speaker of the California Assembly.

Kevin de Len is the California Senate President pro Tempore.

Hilda Solis is a Los Angeles County Supervisor and former Secretary of Labor of the United States.

*Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Protests Erupt at Airports Across the U.S. 0:51 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

During the campaign, voters and journalists alike, kept hoping that although Donald Trump was revealing himself daily with erratic tweets and a preoccupation with an alternative reality, he would soon "act presidential."

Well, in his first week in power he has shown himself to be exactly who we have always known him to be: a xenophobic, racist, delusional, fact-free king of his new fiefdomAmerica. With the swipe of a pen he is altering American democracy for decades to come.

Whatever President Trump believes becomes reality and as anyone that has read "1984" by George Orwell knows, is a terrifying and dangerous world to exist in.

First, came the attacks on women just one day after the largest global march led by women, joined by allies on almost every continent. Then came the attacks on our environment with the reinstatement of the Dakota Access and the Keystone pipelines, followed by the censure of environmental agencies, a call for the names of Energy Department employees working on climate change, then a push to build the wall between the US and Mexico and then finally the most jaw-dropping of them all: the enactment of a ban on Muslims from seven countriesnone of which had any involvement with terrorist attacks in the US and also, places where the Trump brand hasn't penetratedcoincidence? Nope.

The Constitution of these United States begins with We the People, not I the King or President.

In Lin-Manuel Miranda's Broadway hit "Hamilton" he raps "immigrants, we get the job done". If it were not for African slaves who suffered incredible torture to build this nation, followed by the immigrants from varied nations that worked for pennies on a dollarAmerica as we know it would not exist.

Our current crop of scientists, doctors, lawyers, military personal, teachers, athletes and on and on would not exist if we closed down our borders and closed our minds to the reality of the global society we currently live in and pre-election were the leaders of.

Related: We're Out: Black Americans Leaving the Country Before Trump Takes Office

Let history be our guide in this moment and remind our leaders whose silence is deafening; that we closed our doors once before, during the Holocaust and allowed millions to perishthen we turned America into a prison, holding the Japanese in this country against their will.

The Statue of Liberty reads: "bring me your tired, your hungry, your poor, yearning to be free." There is no footnote on this monument that then asks for a religious test and your feelings on the sitting presidentas the detainees across this country were asked last night. Being an American means that I have the right to question my government and dislike my president if I so chooseas we saw with the unfounded dislike for President Obamait is our right.

People gather in Copley Square to protest the muslim immigration ban enacted by President Trump on Jan. 29, 2017 in Boston. Darren McCollester / Getty Images

Sunday, Trump said in a statement, "I have tremendous feeling for the people involved in this horrific humanitarian crisis in Syria. My first priority will always be to protect and serve our country, but as President I will find ways to help all those who are suffering."

While Trump may be slowly rolling back the refugee ban thanks to the ACLU, and teams of lawyers dispersed across this country that are fighting for the rights of immigrantshe is setting up for his next attackour votes. These delusional claims of voter fraud in the presidential election are his dog whistles to summon, if successful, one of the largest voter purges of all timeand just in time for midterms in 2018.

The streets and the tweets are watching and if the spontaneous protests over the weekend are an indication of anythingit is clear we will not as a country go silently into the night while we allow this president to make a mockery of American values and our democracy. The Constitution of these United States begins with "We the People," not "I, the King or President."

We overturned tyranny once before and it will indeed happen again. 65 million Americans chose a different candidate on election night and the ones that chose Trump are already regretting their actions while they hold fast to their Obamacare which will be taken away from them as quickly as they pulled the lever in the voting booth.

The election may be over; but the resistance is just beginning. An American Dream deferred? Not on our watch. Power to the people and to all the people, power.

Follow NBCBLK on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram

*President-elect Trump's immigration enforcement is about to come to a city near you, well, at least if you find yourself in one of the 300 sanctuary cities across the country.

What is a sanctuary city? There's not one official definition but it's basically municipalities that don't alert federal authorities about people in their city who lack legal status or go out of their way to find them.

Beyond the shorthand of what side of the immigration debate you're onif you want to build the wall or prefer comprehensive immigration reformmost of us aren't versed in the policy technicalities of how extensively local and federal immigration law enforcement authorities work together. It's not a one-size-fits all concept.

Nevertheless, President-elect Trump on his first day in office will cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities. Just to name two of the biggies, there's Los Angeles receiving half a billion and New York with $10 billion in federal funding.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Sanctuary cities risk Trump confrontation 3:58 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

President-elect Trump's punishment to sanctuary cities is both steep and nonsensical.

To begin, sanctuary cities are not a shield against deportation. If a person is undocumented and resides in one of the 300 sanctuary entities, they do not get a "pass." Federal immigration law enforcement can come to a person's home, work, you name it, and execute a deportation order anywhere in the United States.

RELATED: 'Sanctuary Cities' Vow to Protect Immigrants From Trump Plan

In fact under the Obama administration, a record 2.5 million deportations took place  regardless of what city the undocumented immigrant resided in.

File photo of Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel, who said the outcome of the U.S. presidential election won't impact the city's commitment as a sanctuary city for immigrants. Teresa Crawford / AP

As part of the Department of Homeland Security's Priority Enforcement Program, every person booked in a city or county jail will have their prints run through an FBI and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) database  sanctuary city or not. So within seconds, ICE can know whether an undocumented person who has a criminal record is in custody in Anytown, USA.

Where the technical murkiness comes in is whether and how long a jail keeps an undocumented person that ICE has flagged from the fingerprint check.

University of California Los Angeles students held an anti-Donald Trump march through campus on November 10, 2016 in Los Angeles, California. FREDERIC J. BROWN / AFP - Getty Images

According to the Priority Enforcement Program, ICE can issue a deportation request to the jail to keep an undocumented person in custody beyond their release date so that federal immigration authorities can retrieve him or her. Sanctuary cities will not hold individuals past their release date and non-sanctuary cities will.

Put differently, sanctuary cities are saying to the federal government - you do your law enforcement job, we'll do ours. Sanctuary cities see immigration as a federal level issue. In using local cops or sheriffs to enforce federal immigration laws, cities see a loss of trust by immigrant communities. The idea of community policing goes out the window

RELATED: Professors, Students 'Uncertain' About Futures of Undocumented Peers

Then there's the dollars and cents part of it. The most direct impact is on local budgets burdened in carrying out a job that is not theirs. The indirect impact discourages the economic vibrancy of immigrant friendly cities. It is well documented that immigrant dense cities do better economically than their non-immigrant dense counterparts. We know that immigrants are the most entrepreneurial group of individuals in the country and because of that they are a vital economic engine. It's not a coincidence that California and New York  with cities that drive our economy  have sanctuary cities.

Setting an immigrant unfriendly mood is not good for business. And as our "businessman president" you'd think Trump would celebrate not punish entrepreneurship.

No one disputes the need to bring criminals to justice, whether they are citizens or not. But the idea that going after sanctuary cities will get rid of the country's criminal element and curb immigration at the same time is bunk. As I've argued previously, if Trump is serious about immigration he needs to go after the demand, namely employers who hire undocumented immigrants. And as to the apprehension of undocumented criminals, nothing is stopping the federal government from already doing that.

Follow NBC News Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

*So much for that pivot. Despite speculation over a so-called "softening" on immigration policy, Donald Trump returned to true nativist form on Wednesday night with a speech laying out his ten-point plan for reforming our immigration system. Among his proposals were building a border wall, a new deportation task force, and a requirement that undocumented immigrants leave the country to apply for legal status. There will be no path to citizenship for the undocumented.

Trump's speech was long on inflammatory rhetoric, and short on viable policy solutions. He missed no opportunity to demonize immigrants, yet failed to address the issue at the heart of the immigration debate - what to do with the estimated 11 million undocumented people who are already here. Trump also revealed his ignorance about how our immigration system works.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Trump nativist speech follows dark US pattern 16:11 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

The tone of this speech was harsh, at times flat-out ugly. Trump thinks that Syrian refugees arriving in the U.S have it too easy, and that undocumented immigrants are treated better than veterans. He believes that we should institute an "ideological loyalty test" for prospective immigrants; never mind that this would likely be unconstitutional. He described some immigrants as a potential "Trojan Horse," and reeled off crimes allegedly committed by undocumented people.

What Trump did not do was deliver a speech grounded in fact. He ignored the reality that, according to experts and Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson, our border is more secure and safer than ever. He ignored the reality that illegal immigration is down, with more Mexicans leaving than entering the U.S. He ignored the reality that undocumented immigrants are our friends, family members, colleagues, employees, and neighbors. Instead viewers got a fiery tirade invoking every negative stereotype of what Trump called "criminal aliens" and a long list of all the people he plans to deport on Day One.

Trump stated that the only way that undocumented people might be allowed to adjust their status is if they return to their countries of origin, apply to re-enter legally, and go through a vetting process. But under current immigration law, this is not possible. Anyone who has remained in the U.S. illegally for over six months who leaves the country - for any reason - is automatically subject to a ban on re-entry for three years, ten years, or sometimes permanently. These provisions apply even if someone is leaving to apply for a visa or entry permit at a consulate.

Meanwhile, consider that 62 percent of the undocumented have lived here for more than a decade, and one-fifth have lived here for more than two decades. Imagine the social and economic disruption if such people were forced back to countries where they no longer belong. So Trump's notion that he will make people leave and then allow the "good ones" to come back is as impractical as it is inhumane.

As Trump enumerated his ideas, from ending funding for sanctuary cities to increasing the budget for the Border Patrol, he mostly overlooked the fact that such proposals must all go through Congress. That's one reason we do not yet have national mandatory E-Verify or an entry/exit tracking system for visas; lawmakers may like these ideas in theory, but they balk at funding them. Does Trump plan on making Congress pay for programs the same way he intends to make Mexico pay for the wall?

Trumps immigration screed veered into blatant falsehoods.

At times, Trump's screed veered into blatant falsehoods. He claimed that undocumented immigrants are a net drain on society, while there is solid research showing otherwise. He ripped into the "Obama/Clinton" immigration failures, even though Hillary Clinton, in her former role as Secretary of State, did not set immigration policy. He said that Clinton wants "open borders for all" which is not true. For the record, Clinton plans to work with Congress on an overhaul of our immigration system, end immigrant family detention, and use executive action only as a last resort.

For undocumented immigrants and their allies, much of Trump's speech was chilling. He vowed to cancel DACA, which has helped thousands of young people live productive lives without fear of deportation. He wants to bring back the troublesome 287(g) and Secure Communities programs, which sowed fear in immigrant communities until President Obama's DHS phased them out. And just in case there were any doubt about what a Trump administration would be like, The Donald was clear: "Everyone not following immigration laws is subject to deportation." He went so far as to suggest that anyone apprehended for immigration violations be detained and deported at once, without the due process required by law. Such disregard for our justice system and civil liberties is staggering.

How darkly ironic that this virulent anti-immigrant sentiment comes from a man who has been accused of using illegal workers on his hotels and properties, whose modeling agency allegedly flouted immigration law, who prefers to hire cheaper foreign labor over Americans at his Florida resort, and whose wife has her own immigration controversy. Hostility, meet hypocrisy.

Basically, Trump's "new" immigration policy is what is has been all along, the mobilizing of xenophobia towards immigrants and anyone else his base views as The Other. The only positive takeaway from Trump's proposals was that they exist in a far-right bubble, away from the large majorities of Americans who favor practical immigration solutions. According to a July Gallup poll, 84 percent of Americans, including 76 percent of Republicans, want a path to citizenship for the undocumented with conditions - something Trump derides as "amnesty." Two-thirds of Americans, incidentally, are against Trump's wall.

Trump's immigration speech should serve notice on anyone who still believes that he can or is willing to change for the general election. The GOP nominee for president intends to make America Great Again by terrorizing and demonizing immigrants, and by trampling on our nation's core values in the process.

Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

*President Donald Trump has had a rocky first few weeks in office  from fights over his cabinet picks to protests and legal challengers over his immigration executive order  but he may find the biggest challenge lies in his best-known promise: The wall he wants to build on the U.S.-Mexican border.

Numbers suggest that Trump's wall could become an anchor for him in public opinion polling. Americans' support for the wall sits beneath Trump's already low job approval numbers in many polls. And congressional Republicans are raising questions about the wall Trump's promise that Mexico would pay for it.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Trump's Promise: Fix Immigration 1:42 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

Since his inauguration Trump has not experienced the public opinion "honeymoon" that is usually afforded new presidents. Gallup polling shows 42 percent of Americans approve of the job he's doing, while 53 percent oppose it. His inaugural approval rating from Gallup, 45 percent, was the lowest on record.

And Trump's problems extend beyond the personal. Last weekend new poll numbers showed unhappiness with the president's immigration order, with majorities opposing it in CBS News and CNN polls.

But the numbers for the wall are far worse. A variety of recent polls have found that six in 10 Americans oppose the wall. CNN, Gallup and ABC/Washington Post polls taken since mid-January all found 60 percent oppose or disapprove of building the wall.

NBC News

Meanwhile, a recent CBS News poll found that 79 percent of Americans believe the United States will end up paying for whatever wall gets built. The price tag on the wall is figured to be in the range of $12 billion to $15 billion, according to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.

Bearing all that in mind, what is Trump to do? The easiest answer might be to just drop the issue, at least for the time being, and hope people will forget about it. But the numbers also show why that won't be easy for the new president.

While a solid majority of Americans oppose building a wall, an enormous number of Republicans favor it  80 percent according to Gallup  and remember building the wall was a crucial part of Trump's campaign, cited at rally after rally.

In other words, very early in Trump's presidency he is being forced to make a decision on something that his base strongly wants and needs him to do, but that most Americans do not like.

NBC News

And unlike other proposals or policy positions, such as the immigration order, the wall is more difficult to finesse. It's real object that will cost billions of dollars to build. It's a symbol that takes physical form, the kind that can be used in political ads. It's a sign of Trump doing what he promised.

Those points may all be positives for Trump among his supporters, but for right now they look like a negatives for everyone else.

For a president who hasn't had a honeymoon and who wants a win with voters, that is a problem. And with the project estimated to take years to complete, it's a problem that could be with him for a while.

*President-elect Donald Trump's Cabinet is almost complete. And there's no denying its diversity  that is of the billionaires and just plain multi-millionaires, as former Obama adviser David Axelrod pointed out.

The incoming Cabinet is set to be the least racially and ethnically diverse in close to three decades. And as far as Latinos  zero  not one has been named. To put things in perspective, Latinos constitute over 17 percent of the population. Multimillionaires and beyond constitute a fraction of 1 percent of the population.

Recently there's been some half-hearted flirtation with former California Lt. Gov. Abe Maldonado and former Texas A&M President Elsa Murano for agriculture secretary but I'm not holding my breath.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Trump continues to turn to billionaires for cabinet 5:38 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

Since 1988, a Latino has had a seat at one of the most powerful tables  the American presidential Cabinet. President Ronald Reagan was the first to appoint a Latino, Lauro Cavazos as secretary of education. In all, 12 Latinos have served in presidential Cabinets. With seven appointments, the Democrats edge out the GOP's five appointments. The highest-ranking Latino in a Cabinet position, in terms of line of succession, was Attorney General Alberto Gonzales who served in the George W. Bush administration.

RELATED: Trump's Cabinet Picks Have a Combined Wealth of $14.5B. How Did They All Make Their Money?

Following the Reagan administration, each president, regardless of party, has named an increasing number of Latinos to their Cabinet. As the general Latino population has grown over the decades, so has the presence of Latinos at the Cabinet level.

This type of reflective representation matters exactly because we are a representative democracy. Cabinet positions are not elected, but the executive should strive to fulfill his representative duties by giving diverse groups a voice via his Cabinet.

If Trump does not name a Latinos to his Cabinet, he will be breaking with a decades old political norm.

President-elect Donald Trump shakes the hand of retired U.S. Marine General James Mattis after naming him Secretary of Defense at Crown Coliseum on December 6, 2016 in Fayetteville, North Carolina. Sara D. Davis / Getty Images

Not naming a Latino to the Cabinet would be disappointing, but not surprising in the least. Yes, there was the anti-immigrant and anti-Latino rhetoric throughout Trump's campaign. But the more basic reason we haven't seen Trump reach out to the Latino community is that he didn't need them to win the White House.

To begin, the president-elect doesn't owe the Latino heavyweights of his own party. Beyond clenched teeth endorsements  such as those of Sens. Marco Rubio of Florida and Ted Cruz of Texas  no GOP Latino elites lent their full throated support to Trump. A number of Latino Republicans openly criticized Trump, others just sat out the election. The handful of Latino surrogates Trump drew on were largely unknowns both within the Republican Party and the Latino community.

Beyond Latino Republicans, Trump especially doesn't owe the Latino electorate.

Latino Decisions had Trump with 18 percent of the Latino vote while the national exit polls had Trump with 29 percent. For a number of reasons, I go by the Latino Decisions figure, but even if you don't, fewer than three out of 10 Latinos supported Trump. Moreover, the majority of Latino voters stayed home. There was no electoral giant to speak of and Trump knows it.

RELATED: Latinos Blast Trump's AG Pick Jeff Sessions Over Race, Immigration

It makes sense that Trump doesn't feel like putting a Latino on his Cabinet. But the American presidency isn't a playground kickball game where petty resentments can play out. Latinos may not have supported Trump, but it is still his obligation to represent them as president.

Latinos may not have been fans of Trump, but that doesn't mean that there aren't Hispanics who are more than qualified and even amenable to serve their country through a Cabinet appointment. I hope I am proven wrong and that in the three remaining Cabinet posts Trump seeks to give Latinos a seat at the table.

Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

*He just can't let it go. At a meeting with congressional leaders on Monday night, President Donald Trump questioned the legitimacy of the 2016 election. According to Trump, he would have won the popular vote if 3 million to 5 million "illegals" had not voted.

His suggestion of rampant voter fraud by undocumented immigrants is patently false and the lie was immediately debunked by news outlets. Still, on Tuesday, White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer said that Trump stood by this assertion. And on Wednesday, Trump tweeted he would ask for a major investigation on voter fraud, despite the lack of any evidence to support his assertion and some court findings that "fraud prevention" measures states have adopted, such as requiring voter IDs, have suppressed access to the polls of Latinos and other minority groups.

What cannot be overlooked in the uproar over these false statements is the president's choice of words. "Illegal" is an inaccurate and indefensible way to describe undocumented immigrants. This is not a question of political correctness or semantics. It is a matter of law - and basic human decency. The term is not only offensive - it happens to be wrong.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Election authorities: There is no evidence of voter fraud claimed by Trump 2:32 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

One of the founding principles of the American justice system is the presumption of innocence. That's why even if a criminal act is caught on camera reporters refer to the person as the "alleged suspect." Only a judge or jury can decide, after weighing the circumstances and evidence, if a person is guilty. By referring to a (mythical) group of people as "illegals," Trump is appointing himself as judge and jury and trampling on the due process guarantees of the 5th, 6th, and 14th Amendments of the Constitution.

In fact, the only person who can pass judgment on the immigration status of another person is an immigration judge. Politicians and journalists do not have this right. Neither do police officers or other law enforcement officials. That Trump is assuming such a prerogative indicates an astonishing level of arrogance and ignorance.

It might surprise people to know that being here without authorization is not a crime. As the Supreme Court noted in U.S. v. Arizona (2012), "as a general rule, it is not a crime for a removable alien to remain present in the U.S." Being in the country without proper papers is a civil offense, not a crime, unless the person has been previously deported and returns without permission. (Illegal entry is a misdemeanor or can be a felony under certain circumstances.)

In recognition of this reality, news outlets like The Associated Press, USA Today, Los Angeles Times, San Francisco Chronicle, NBC News, and ABC News have stopped referring to people as "illegal" or "illegal immigrants." These organizations have likely realized that calling people "illegal" is imperfect at best and dehumanizing at worst. Among the 11 million undocumented people in the U.S., for example, are refugees, asylum seekers, and victims of sex and human traffickers. They do not deserve to be tagged with a phrase that implies criminality.

In his election night victory speech, Trump promised to be "president for all Americans." Really? Then he should know that nearly half of Latinos find the term "illegal" offensive. A poll by Fox News Latino found that 46 percent of Latinos took issue with such language. How disheartening that our new president is throwing around a slur that has been linked to racial profiling, hate speech, and even violence.

At the most human level, it is mean-spirited to reduce a person to being "legal" or "illegal." Most people would probably agree that it would be unkind to call Martha Stewart, Mark Wahlberg, Tim Allen, or Wesley Snipes "illegals." Yet they all have criminal records. If we are unwilling to use such a negative phrase on a celebrity, shouldn't we think twice before tossing it onto a group of people that includes thousands of children?

It is especially troubling that Trump, who made illegal immigration a central issue of his campaign, would speak so callously about the vulnerable people whose futures may be directly impacted by his administration. Once again he is scapegoating immigrants, and by extension Latinos, this time for a problem that doesn't even exist.

Ironically,Trump himself has a history with those he might call "illegals." NBC News has noted that Trump Tower got its start with undocumented foreign workers. The First Lady's immigration history is murky too; during the campaign, Trump promised a press conference to discuss allegations about his wife working in the U.S. without proper legal permission when she was a model in the 1990s, but that never happened. So maybe people who live in White Houses shouldn't be throwing stones.

Not only is Trump wrong in his claims of voter fraud, but his use of the term "illegal" is divisive and irresponsible.

Follow NBC News Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

*In my mind, when I think about Muslims, I think about the preponderance of violence in the Muslim world.

Most of the Muslim characters in my head have been cast across our never-ending news headlines framed on the political stage of foreign policy, American interests, and global conflict  from Ayatollah Khomeini to Osama Bin Laden to Bashar al-Assad.

Since 9/11, it seems all the Muslim bad guys have the lead roles in our news coverage.

But Aziz Ansari, Mahershala Ali, Zayn Malik, Shaq, Dr. Oz don't fit into our distorted narrative as Muslims.

A protester holds a sign at San Francisco International Airport during a demonstration to denounce President Donald Trump's executive order that bars citizens of seven predominantly Muslim-majority countries from entering the U.S. on Jan. 28 in San Francisco. Marcio Jose Sanchez / AP

I, like many, lack personal meaningful connections with American Muslims. While I don a turban and a long spiral beard, for many Americans, I am Muslim. I am Arab. I am Osama Bin laden. I am ISIS. I am a terrorist.

I inhabit this strange space where, as a Sikh man, I am both a target and consumer of this grotesquely oversimplified caricature of a Muslim. Fittingly, I have found cartoons as my tool to confront this caricature. One of these cartoons was of Captain America, in turban and beard, all ready to battle hate and intolerance. One thing led to another, I donned the Captain America uniform for a photoshoot at the request of Fiona Aboud, a Brazilian American photographer.

Vishavjit Singh, also known as Sikh Captain America, at the Inauguration of Donald Trump in Washington, D.C., on Jan. 20, 2017. Fiona Aboud

I have been on a mission since, traveling across the nation in this metamorphosis of a fictional character which oddly has allowed me to create a space where I am not just "Muslim" anymore.

It has been a "Twilight Zone" experience with Americans from armed forces to Republicans to teachers to young white kids to even Trump supporters embracing me.

I have heard from many concerned Americans about my safety over the years: "I am sorry you have to do this," "I am sorry you get targeted as Muslim," "We Americans are ignorant and should know better to differentiate between the Muslims and Sikhs," "We like Sikhs but it's Muslims we have issues with," "You Sikhs have battled Muslims throughout your history and it's sad now you are confused as one."

The heartfelt concern in these statements might be genuine but it is built on a manufactured vision of a global fundamentalist Muslim.

Although it is heartening to see an outpouring of support for refugees, permanent residents, and legal visitors impacted by the temporary ban imposed by executive order from our president, it would be remiss of me not to hold mainstream western media and popular culture accountable for laying the foundations of this radical Muslim.

Dear @USATODAY,

Why are you using the photo of a Sikh in your post about "Islamic terrorists?" This is wrong and harmful. Please correct it. pic.twitter.com/WT4No330aq  Simran Jeet Singh (@SikhProf) January 28, 2017

Many of our nation's new leaders, their advisors, far-right media and many Americans who might not have real life interactions with Muslims have taken this to a new level. They have constructed and bought into a simple narrative that Islam, the religion Muslims practice, is a political ideology, even an evil  and, by extension, Muslims are susceptible to radical extremism.

It just happens many of us did not imagine the purveyors of this extreme distorted narrative to be in power.

At this point we would be served well to remember that our nation was involved in clandestine activities to topple Iran's Prime Minister in a 1953 coup. This would precipitate the rise of Mullahs whose Iran we would come to define as an enemy. We would proceed to provide diplomatic and military support to Saddam Hussein in his battle with Iran in the 1980s. Then, in 2003, we went to war with Iraq to topple Saddam Hussein based on gross intelligence failures and strategic policy mistakes. Thousands of Iraqi and American lives have been lost. Our soldiers are still stationed in Iraq. ISIS rose out of this mess.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed 'An Atmosphere of Fear': Muslim Americans React to Trump Victory 1:29 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

On more than a few occasions conversations in my friendly circles have pondered out loud: "The Muslims seem to have a problem."

Somewhere in the Muslim world, many are pondering the thought: "The Americans have a problem."

The reduction of all Muslims on the planet into a simple narrative is akin to extremists in the Islamic world reducing Americans and the western world as monolithic kafirs, unbelievers who are rightful targets of murderous violence.

We have to fight the radical elements in the Islamic world bent on targeting American lives including fighting radical American extremists. For starters lets begin by calling Americans engaging in acts of hate against Muslims, Sikhs, Jews and others as home-grown terrorists.

Vishavjit Singh is a New York City-based cartoonist, writer, performance artist, and creator of www.Sikhtoons.com. He got his spark for cartooning in the post-9/11 tragedy when Americans with turbaned and bearded countenance became targets of hate & bias. For the past few years he has been traveling across the U.S. with his Captain America persona to tackle fear, anxiety, bigotry and intolerance.

Follow NBC Asian America on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Tumblr.

*NEW YORK  There are two dominant narratives of Fidel Castro: He's a nationalist symbol of triumph over the U.S.'s dominant influence and control over the Western Hemisphere, and he's a controlling autocrat who changed his island nation so drastically that his people are divided into cubanos and exiliados with the latter group often charging him with creating a tyranny arguably worse than the one he tried to extinguish.

Assessing the impact of Castro and Fidelismo has provoked highly polarized polemics, but as the days pass, more nuanced views are likely to emerge. I think that the time we're living in, filled with uncertainty, anxiety, and fits of rhetorical hate speech, demands as many perspectives on Castro and his legacy as possible, perhaps allowing us to re-construct a historical truth from crashing waves of fragmented perspectives.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Uncertain Future For Cuba As Many Wonder What's Next 2:15 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

As a New York-born son of Puerto Rican migrants who has appreciated Castro's support for Puerto Rican independence  and seen the position of the island oscillate back and forth from favored colony to debt-ridden territory  my reaction to Fidel's death is one of tempered sadness, not only for his passing, but what could have been. As I acknowledge the many denunciations of his often harsh control over dissenters, I have also seen deep sadness in the eyes of the son of Carlos Muiz Varela, a Cuban-born activist raised in Puerto Rico who was murdered in the town of Bayamn in 1979 by an anti-Castro group called Comando Zero.

RELATED: On Fidel's Death, Cuba and Puerto Rico, Two Paths Intertwined

I'm not so much interested in taking issue with rabid anti-Castro Cubans and Latin Americans  who may have ironically had a significant hand in electing our despotic president-elect  but offering a critique of his legacy, revolutionary Cuba from the intersectional left.

Fidel's unlikely emergence as leader of a revolutionary force that swept into Cuba's major cities from the Sierra Maestra Mountains, a bearded and arrogant disciple of Jos Mart, the prophet of Nuestra Amrica, was an astonishing fusion of style and substance that would define Latin American resistance for half a century. Together with his Argentine comrade Che Guevara, Castro staked a claim to Cuban sovereignty that would stand in defiance of the U.S.'s pattern of exerting control over Latin American nations through the use of caudillo proxies, Mafioso hoteliers, and banana republics.

Many passionate believers who fought with Castro were ultimately dismayed by his turn to Marxism-Leninism soon after his forces ousted US-friendly dictator Fulgencio Batista. But Fidel's move to Communism was an audacious assertion that Cuba could push the boundaries of the European debate over this radical solution to wealth inequality.

RELATED: Cuba after Castro: How Much Change, and How Quickly?

By spotlighting Cuba's plight as a peripheral economy of the global south, Fidel's revolution was intent on creating a new, forward-thinking society that had for half a century been co-opted by US interests as a free trade zone for capital investment and tourist debauchery.

Castro's unapologetic intransigence was intoxicating to Latin Americans and Latin@s who yearned for a true independence and bristled at the hypocrisy of the US's cloaked colonialism. This earned him active hostility in the form of multiple overt and covert attacks from U.S. intelligence agencies and anti-Castro Cubans, and most damagingly, the still existing trade embargo.

A man looks at a graffiti reading "Long live Fidel. Homeland or Death" in Havana on November 27, 2016, two days after Cuba's historic revolutionary leader Fidel Castro died aged 90. YAMIL LAGE / AFP - Getty Images

While we'll never know if some, perhaps modified form of socialism could have succeeded in Cuba if the U.S. had decided to take a more liberal tack in its relations with Cuba, the embargo sealed the island's fate in terms of Castro's one-party autocracy, state-controlled media, arbitrary arrests of political dissidents, and the persistent peer-pressuring of the committees for the defense of the revolution.

It was in the defense of Cuba's economic independence that Castro created the conditions for the stagnant industry, crumbling infrastructure and widespread shortages of commodities that still afflict the island's residents today. If Cuba couldn't trade with the US, well, according to Fidel, it didn't need to, and it couldn't afford any open-market influences for fear of corrupting those of failing faith.

The brilliant humanity of Castro's welfare state  its dedication to health care, its striving for universal literacy, its low child mortality rates  was ultimately a product of Fidelismo's benevolent yet controlling patriarchal bubble. A revolutionary society plagued by scarcity could only be sustained by unflagging commitment from a state that demanded absolute loyalty.

A man reads a newspaper in a street of Havana, on November 27, 2016, two days after Cuban revolutionary leader Fidel Castro died. PEDRO PARDO / AFP - Getty Images

Castro's acceptance or rejection by different elements of the greater Cuban community resembles that of members of a nuclear family with a strong father figure. Some saw a caring and courageous benefactor, others a suffocating tyrant. Through the lens of Latin America's complicated view of race, he represented a typical Latin@ assertion: our mixed-race reality makes us natural anti-racists.

A lighter-skinned Cuban from a privileged background, Castro's insistence on eliminating social class differences drove most of the island's lighter-skinned elite and middle class to South Florida in the early years of the revolution and elevated the stature of the Afro-Cuban majority. In this way, he followed Mart's vision that Cuba must recognize its strength as an Afro- and indigenous-rooted nation.

Yet for all of Castro's embrace of African liberation movements and his rapport with leaders from Nelson Mandela to Malcolm X, there are few if any significant Afro-Cubans in prominent political positions on the island. And though the liberation of women has long been touted, the emergence of Josefina Vidal as Director of the North American Department of Cuba's Foreign Ministry seemed long overdue. The leadership role of Castro's granddaughter Mariel as an activist for LGBTQ rights is encouraging but does not erase the years of previous persecution of this marginalized group in the past.

RELATED: Op-Ed: In the U.S., We Rebuilt What Fidel Destroyed

As far as human rights are concerned, it's only fair that criticisms of the worst excesses of Castro's regime  characterized as persistent, although not exactly horrific by a recent Human Rights Watch report  be accompanied by a recognition that most democracies in the "free world" have political prisoners and some level of persecution of dissidents.

It's particularly hard for the U.S., accused of violating international law by denying suspected terrorists due process and in fact torturing them in its Guantnamo prison  that sits on occupied Cuban territory  to take much of a moral high ground in such a debate.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Cubans mourn Fidel Castro's death while critics in Miami celebrate 1:45 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

As much celebrating as there was in Little Havana on Friday night, it remains to be seen what real significance Castro's death will have on Cuba's future. The economic reforms begun by Ral will most likely proceed at a possibly accelerated pace, but they are still designed to leave socialism intact.

There is no indication, particularly with a Trump presidency that the embargo will be lifted at any time soon. And as much as there is continued discontent and risky attempts at emigration by Cuban residents, regime change on the island seems unlikely.

The passing of Fidel has provoked strong opinions across a broad political spectrum, and a great deal of human, emotional reaction.

Yet it seems Fidel's ability to change the world passed away a long time ago, and all we're left with is the slowly vanishing image of that handsome, bearded man holding a cigar, using his oratory brilliance to keep the revolutionary imagination from disappearing. My hope is that Cuba will ultimately, on its own terms, hold onto its dream of liberation.

Ed Morales is a freelance writer for The Nation and other publications. Based in New York, he teaches at Columbia University's Center for the Study of Ethnicity and Race. He co-directed a documentary, Whose Barrio?, about the gentrification of East Harlem.

Follow NBC News Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

*Jill Stein was successful in pressuring the Wisconsin Election Commission's Administrator to issue a statement that they would begin a recount of the votes in the election. But rather than helping, Stein's actions risk damaging the voting rights of Latinos and African-Americans not just in Wisconsin, but in other states, too.

By challenging the election results without any evidence, Jill Stein is giving lawmakers an opportunity to further disenfranchise minorities by passing even more restrictive voter laws that will do nothing to protect people's right to cast their ballots and instead further disenfranchise minorities.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Donald Trump slams recount efforts, claims fraud cost him popular vote 4:23 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

President-Elect Donald Trump responded to Stein's recount request by wildly casting doubt on the very election he won, saying  without any basis for his claim that millions of votes were cast illegally. Trump later claimed  again, without any proof that there was electoral fraud in Virginia, California, and New Hampshire.

In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 27, 2016

Serious voter fraud in Virginia, New Hampshire and California - so why isn't the media reporting on this? Serious bias - big problem!  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 28, 2016

In California, the response to Trump's claims was swift. Alex Padilla, the first Latino Secretary of State, tweeted: "It appears that Mr. Trump is troubled by the fact that a growing majority of Americans did not vote for him," said Padilla. "His unsubstantiated allegations of voter fraud in California and elsewhere are absurd. His reckless tweets are inappropriate and unbecoming of a President-elect."

While it is important that we improve our voting systems, calling the Wisconsin election into question has opened a Pandora's Box of unfounded allegations that will only give lawmakers an excuse to create more voter laws that will do nothing but make it more difficult for minorities to participate.

Just this year, civil rights lawyers were hard at work fighting unnecessary voter laws in Texas, Wisconsin, and Arizona.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Will a recount make a difference? 3:17 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

It must be stated that there is zero evidence of tampering or fraud, nor is there any evidence of any systemic attempt to hack the voting machines in Wisconsin. None. This call to action by Jill Stein followed a story in New York magazine that sensationalized a call by a group of computer scientists at the University of Michigan to audit the election based solely on a superficial analysis of differences between paper ballot systems and electronic systems.

Subsequent analysis by Nate Silver at 538 and private data analyst and political scientist Ben Radford found that once other variables are included in the analysis, there was not a likely distinguishable relationship between electronic voting systems and votes for either candidate. In other words, there was no evidence of fraud. So far, nobody has refuted these findings by Silver and Radford with data.

In a blog post by the computer scientist from which the original story was based, Alex Halderman made a case for verifying voting systems in general, and did not say that there was any evidence of fraud in Wisconsin, Michigan, or Pennsylvania.

In his post, Halderman writes, "Examining the physical evidence in these states  even if it finds nothing amiss  will help allay doubt and give voters justified confidence that the results are accurate".

With the recount now underway, Hillary Clinton has joined in supporting the recount. It should be noted that Marc E. Elias, Hillary Clinton's general counsel, posted on his blog that there is still no evidence of fraud.

"Because we had not uncovered any actionable evidence of hacking or outside attempts to alter the voting technology, we had not planned to exercise this option ourselves," Elias wrote, "but now that a recount has been initiated in Wisconsin, we intend to participate in order to ensure the process proceeds in a manner that is fair to all sides."

Since the controversial election between Bush and Gore in 2000, the government passed several laws meant to bring back confidence in our elections systems, most notably, the Help Americans Vote Act (HAVA). Among other things, HAVA was intended to ensure that there were proper verification procedures in place to prevent voter fraud, as well as mandating that any voter who was being denied the right to vote would be able to file a provisional ballot.

RELATED: Appeals Court OKs Wisconsin's Strict Voter ID Law

However, research has found that the implementation of some of these verification procedures threaten the voting rights of minority groups by making it more difficult for them to acquire the proper voter identification. For instance, in some states a college school ID or a public transportation ID is not allowed to identify the voter. Earlier this year, a federal appeals court found that Texas' voter ID laws violated the Voting Rights Act, but fell short of saying the law must be struck down.

In recent years Republican lawmakers have justified these voting procedures by saying there is widespread voter fraud, meaning people are impersonating legal voters in order to cast a vote so that they may influence an election.

However, study after study shows there is no evidence that in-person voter impersonation happens in any systemic way. Challenging the electoral process without any evidence only serves to embolden the overwhelmingly Republican-led legislatures passing even more onerous laws making it harder for people, especially minorities, to vote.

Follow NBC News Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

*Now that Donald J. Trump has been president of the United States for a few days it is becoming clear, to the horror of his opponents but perhaps even to some of the people who voted for him, that a President Trump is setting to do exactly what the campaigner Trump said he would.

That may be shocking to those who have never held their political candidates to their words, but despite the overwhelming evidence that Mr. Trump is not the most truthful of men, his supporters undoubtedly believed his promises and undoubtedly are thrilled by the steady stream of presidential signing photos and announcements from the White House detailing (or not-quite-detailing) the fulfillment of campaign promises  one of which was to suspend immigration and non-immigrant visits by people from certain countries, Islamic all, that as the president puts it, wish to "do us harm."

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Trump Signs Executive Order on 'Extreme Vetting' and 'Refugees'. 1:53 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

RELATED: Trump Signs Two Executive Orders; Expands Power of Military, 'Extreme Vetting'

Those countries include the usual suspects as far as most Americans are concerned  Iraq, from where ISIS evolved from al Qaeda and the setting for "The Hurt Locker"; Syria, which ISIS has been able to use as a location for their snuff films; Somalia, the location of "Black Hawk Down"; Yemen, where we hear al Qaeda is active; Libya, a failed state where our ambassador was killed; Sudan, where Christians broke off and created their own separate country; and finally Iran, whose proper name, "The Islamic Republic of", suggests to Americans soon to become accustomed to hearing their president utter the words "radical Islamic terrorism" a base for that very phenomenon.

(The countries which are not included in a visa ban happen to be the countries whose citizens have actually committed terror acts against the U.S. and the West, which means despite comforting his fans by restricting visitors from scary countries, Mr. Trump's proposal would not have prevented any terror act, including 9/11, San Bernardino, or Orlando, had it been enacted under previous presidents.)

For a number of reasons, apart from the cruelness of a ban on refugees from what are war-torn areas  especially cruel to those whose families have been separated and are awaiting reunification in the U.S.  the country the visa ban affects most is Iran, which in turn also negatively affects the U.S.

Refugee admission program suspended for 120 days, per @POTUS. Refugees from Syria suspended indefinitely. Text --> pic.twitter.com/EOck5KLfBl  Hallie Jackson (@HallieJackson) January 28, 2017

First, there are over a million Iranian Americans, and possibly another million Iranian permanent residents ("Green Card" holders) in America (the 1979 revolution created the first wave of immigrants). As more recent 1st and 2nd generation immigrants, most, if not almost all, of those Iranians still have family in Iran, and although obviously not all those family members regularly visit their American relatives, the fact that they can't anymore means an entire class of Americans must travel if they wish to see relatives  and, of course, little boys and girls might not be able to see grandma and grandpa anymore.

Second, Iranians who have ventured to our shores, whether legally through an immigration procedure, or by finding a way to turn a visitor or student visa into a more permanent one, are among the most successful immigrants in the country. (That is not a boast; it simply means to America and Americans that Iranian immigrants have not, traditionally and in any great numbers, relied on welfare, local or state handouts, or even unemployment benefits, and their higher than average incomes has meant more taxes to government coffers.)

 Make America Great Again means you have to have immigration, for the again means you believe America was once great, and America was  and still is  a nation entirely made up of immigrants.

Iranian universities are world class, especially in the sciences, and Iranians who pursue graduate degrees at our universities have in many cases stayed on to work in engineering and other sciences, professions that have in recent years had to rely on immigrants to fill jobs and keep America the leader in technical innovation.

"Make America Great Again" means you have to have immigration, for the "again" means you believe America was once great, and America was  and still is  a nation entirely made up of immigrants (apologies to Native Americans, on whose land we made America up, not even leaving them with the dignity of a native name for the new country).

Of course Iranians aren't the only immigrants who have contributed to America  many, many others have  but Iranians are, among the group of seven countries targeted in the executive order, the largest minority in the U.S.

There is a more pressing issue, though, with Iran being on the list of countries whose citizens cannot travel to the U.S.: The JCPOA, or nuclear deal that Mr. Trump has in the past labeled a "horrible deal." Under that "horrible deal," Iran has slowed its nuclear program to a crawl, ensuring that it will not build a nuclear weapon or that if it attempts to, will be caught almost instantly, and in return, the U.S. and six other countries (and the UN Security Council) lifted nuclear-related sanctions on Iran and promised to do nothing further to impede non-U.S. business with Iran. Already, it was argued by Iranians that HR 158, which mandated that anyone traveling to Iran could no longer participate in the U.S. visa waiver program (open to most European citizens) and which President Obama signed after implementation of the nuclear deal, was in violation of that aspect of the deal, as it would clearly discourage European businessmen from doing business in Iran if they also wanted the freedom to easily travel to the U.S.

THIS is the most sweeping part of Trump immigration EO -- a wide, temporary ban on all immigrants from a list of Middle Eastern countries: pic.twitter.com/2Lve1ZURnq  Ari Melber (@AriMelber) January 28, 2017

The new order goes further, of course, with an outright ban on Iranians, which would mean an Iranian businessman or woman could no longer travel to the U.S. if he or she managed to do business here (and there are legal business opportunities  you can, for example, now dine on Iranian caviar, nibble Persian pistachios, and even walk on a new Persian carpet).

It is likely that Iran will again protest that this executive order is in direct violation of the JCPOA. (It will also mean that unlike with the delivery of the first Airbus aircraft that Iran recently took in France, Iranian pilots would be unable to themselves take physical delivery of Boeing jets manufactured in America.)

One might be tempted to wonder if the fuss by Iranians (including the lead actress in an Oscar-nominated film who is boycotting this year's ceremony in Hollywood, and who seem to be the loudest protesting) as well as civil rights groups in the U.S. is overblown. After all, the ban or suspension of visas is only temporary, initially lasting 90 days. But it is not: The proviso that the affected countries must furnish "appropriate information" on their citizens to the State Department and the Dept. of Homeland Security in that 90 days  in other words: "Please rat out which one of your citizens you think is a threat to us, doesn't like us, and one we should not let into our country."

I would venture to say that hell, if there is one, will freeze over and pigs will take to the air before any of the countries (with the possible exception of Iraq, whose citizens have suffered enough at our hands), and especially Iran, complies with that order. And for those who might think that banning Iranians might not be such a bad thing, let me remind you of one small example: That if you like eBay and have bought or sold something on that site, bear in mind that it was founded by an immigrant  an Iranian-American immigrant, whose family today could be denied entry to the U.S.

Hooman Majd is a writer based in New York, and contributor to NBC News. He has written for publications including the New York Times, The Guardian, The New Yorker, Vanity Fair, The Financial Times, GQ, Time, Newsweek, among others, and is the author of New York Times bestseller "The Ayatollah Begs to Differ," "The Ayatollahs' Democracy," and "The Ministry of Guidance Invites You to Not Stay."

*NEW HAVEN, Conn.  I've been studying human rights for many years. In the safety of America, as a citizen and academic, the fear that I would suffer the same fate as one of the many oppressed groups I write about never crossed my mind. Until now.

Thania Sanchez, Assistant Professor Political Science Yale University

As I watched the development of the Trump campaign over the last year, I recognized all the signs of a leader that exploits minorities for political purposes.

I have seen this happen many times before in many countries where it never ends well.

I've seen it end in the denial of rights: voting rights, working rights, rights to free speech, free movement, privacy, and overall increases in discrimination. And that's just the best case scenario. In the bad cases, it ends in ethnic cleansing or genocide.

I'm not being hyperbolic, this is part of a recognizable pattern of behavior scholars of human rights have identified in cases of grave human rights violations. It is common in these cases for politicians to exploit economic insecurity, or lack of opportunities and direct the anger of citizens to minority groups by resorting to xenophobic and racist rhetoric to gain support.

Minorities are characterized as the ones responsible for all the ills (real or not) the country faces. We have seen this happen in the past in places like Germany or Rwanda, and we see it today in Myanmar and Sudan.

Minorities in those countries did not foresee their tragic fate. Many did believe that the words of some politicians would translate into actual policies that would cost them dearly.

I don't think any country is an exception to this, and I believe we must stop this country from going down the dangerous path of exploiting minorities for the troubles we face.

I strongly believe the language used by Donald Trump can push a country down a path that leads to the denial of rights for many minorities, particularly Latinos and Muslims.

U.S. Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump holds a sign supporting his plan to build a wall between the United States and Mexico that he borrowed from a member of the audience at his campaign rally in Fayetteville, North Carolina March 9, 2016. JONATHAN DRAKE / Reuters

Some Latinos today see Trump's words as just words, or assaults only against undocumented migrants.

But that's what many Jews thought when Hitler first came to power. Or what Tutsis in Rwanda thought the year leading up to the genocide.

The hateful rhetoric, they thought, wasn't targeted against them. It was those other Jews, the non-assimilated ones, or those other Tutsis, the politically involved ones. They were, after all, German or Rwandan citizens and enjoyed all the same protections as other members of their society. Alas, we know those rights were revoked.

I know many will try to say that I'm equating Trump to Hitler and that the U.S. is not Germany.

But it's not about comparing people or events: It's about opposing a candidate who is comfortable using a certain kind of language and rhetoric about minorities and warning about "rigged" elections.

We know under emergency circumstances leaders with plans to oppress minorities throw their constitutions out the window and do what they want. And these same leaders have powers to declare emergency situations.

Imagine if some horrible attack happened on American soil. How would a President Trump react? Imagine if terrorists entered through our southern border? What do you think would happen to Latinos and Muslims? Personally, I don't think we should take that chance.

People support Trump today despite all the things he has said that threaten our constitutional rights, even among Latinos. Many tell themselves that he doesn't mean them. He doesn't mean me. I'm legal. I'm safe. He doesn't mean me. I'm not a rapist or a criminal. I'm hardworking and law-abiding.

I believe language like that puts us all at risk. Who is to say Latinos won't ever be forced to carry special IDs or passports to prove their status? That fourth amendment rights won't be suspended and the police can come to inspect your house whenever they want? Who is to say the process to naturalization for green card holders will not be more difficult? Or that green cards will stop being issued for Latinos? Who is to say travel to Latin American countries will not become more difficult? Who is to say that Trump won't revoke previous amnesties and revoke your citizenship?

You may not believe these things could happen, but do your really want to take the chance?

I have seen language like this before, it's too eerily familiar.

In my opinion, we must vote and send a clear message that we will not let our country become a place where minorities will be scapegoated and discriminated against.

We are Americans, just as any other American, and we must fight to defend our constitution. I beg you to vote and get everyone you know to vote this Tuesday as if your life depended on it. Because it just might.

Thania Sanchez is Assistant Professor of Political Science at Yale University and is also affiliated with the Jackson Institute for Global Affairs.

Follow NBC News Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

*An attendee wears a shirt that reads "Build The Wall" during a campaign event for Donald Trump in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, U.S., on Thursday, Feb. 4, 2016. Victor J. Blue / Bloomberg via Getty Images

There were numerous memorable moments in the first and only vice presidential debate. But one phrase stole the show and will live in perpetuity in the annals of political memes -"That Mexican Thing" or the complete version - "Whipping out that Mexican thing again."

After more than 20 years in politics Democratic vice presidential candidate Tim Kaine has surely been accused of many things, but "whipping out that Mexican thing" was not one of them, at least until the vice presidential debate.

Kaine, a U.S. senator from Virginia and former governor, was recounting offensive statements made by Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, to which Indiana Gov. Mike Pence responded with the now infamous meme.

The double entendre of "whipping out that Mexican thing" is irresistible and really quite funny. After the silly giggle moment, then there's the realization that this is a platter of red meat for the base that thinks that Democrats are whiners and obsessed with multi-culti kumbaya fuzziness.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Pence to Kaine: 'You Whipped Out That Mexican Thing Again' 0:38 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

But scratch below the surface and Pence's remark is a profound statement about the foundational aspect of the Trump-Pence campaign. The GOP presidential campaign is one that has been built upon "otherization"  driving a wedge among people.

RELATED: How Did VP Candidates Do in the Debate? Our Latino Panel Weighs In

Mexicans, and by extension Latinos and immigrants, are not objects. They are not "things." They are human beings. No human being is illegal. One's status can be illegal or one can be in a country illegally, but a human being cannot be illegal just as a human cannot be a thing.

Language is an incredibly powerful force and the Trump campaign is well aware of this. The framing of Mexicans, immigrants, and others who do not fit within a white Anglo Saxon classification is intentional.

The GOP presidential candidate has been practicing the strategy of wedging out the other for a long time. In 2011, Trump entered the political scene making use of such divisiveness. At a CPAC meeting he announced that he was mulling over a presidential run and at the same time established his belief that President Barack Obama was not born in the United States.

RELATED: #ThatMexicanThing: Kaine Needles Pence Over Trump's Comments

The Birther Movement, a movement that questioned the citizenship of our first black president, was Donald Trump's political calling card. That is, until 2015, when he officially announced his candidacy. At that point, Trump's new political calling card was the otherization of Mexicans.

In his speech announcing his candidacy, Donald Trump railed against Mexicans, "When Mexico sends its people, they're not sending their best.They're bringing drugs. They're bringing crime. They're rapists."

Language is incredibly powerful, and the framing of Mexicans, immigrants and others who dont fit within a white Anglo-Saxon classification is intentional.

Over the last 15 months Trump has continued to speak about Mexicans and immigrants in a degrading manner. Along the way he has also looped in divisive and insulting language about Muslims.

Trump's running mate, Pence, is also no stranger to the divide and conquer political strategy. Pence has become the poster child of the anti-gay movement in supporting his state's Religious Freedom Restoration Act that essentially said it was OK for businesses to discriminate against LGBTQ persons.

The Trump-Pence presidential ticket is one that appeals to a base human tendency of Us vs. Them. Yes, it's true that as humans, we automatically classify groups as either in-group or out-group and we have an innate cognitive in-group bias - it's just how our mind works. But interaction, socialization, and education allows us to see past this primal stereotypic reaction and see cross-group commonalities.

RELATED: Kaine: 'We're a Nation of Immigrants'

Just a couple of years ago, the GOP in its 2012 election autopsy report spoke about the need to foster these cross-group commonalities. The report wanted to bring in the others - blacks, Latinos, the LGBTQ community. That idea did not last long. The short-sighted strategy of stoking stereotypes and driving a wedge among people was just to easy to pass up.

Trump assures us he can make America Great Again. All that is needed is to divide out the good things and bad things, namely the Mexicans things, the Muslim things, and the gay things. The question is, in the end, what are we left with as a country once we get rid of all of the things Trump and Pence don't approve of?

Follow NBC News Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

*Trump pumped up over 5,000 at a rally in Austin, Texas this week by pledging a border wall that Mexico would pay for it, and that there would be a return to lawful immigration (translation  no more executive orders protecting undocumented immigrants). Classic Trump.

But just hours before this rally Trump sang a different tune. At a pre-taped town hall hosted by Fox News' Sean Hannity,l Trump said he would be open to softening his view on mass deportation, "There certainly can be a softening because we're not looking to hurt people."

So what happened to Trump's call to reinstate President Eisenhower's Operation Wetback that oversaw a mass deportation of Mexican immigrants?

Trump launched his presidential campaign touting his toughness on immigration. Throughout the primary elections he pledged to build a wall and deport all undocumented persons. He then doubled down on his immigration stances at the Republican National Convention.

Now Trump is pivoting on his immigration stance - at least when it comes to deportation. The night before his Austin rally Trump appeared with Fox News' Bill O'Reilly and introduced a version of his deportation plan that is essentially the one now in place.

RELATED: Trump Praised It Without Naming It: What Was 'Operation Wetback?'

O'Reilly asked Trump, "Are you really rethinking your mass deportation strategy" to which he answered, "I just want to follow the law, the existing laws are very strong." He went on to say that he wants to "get rid of all the bad onesgang members, killersas far as everybody else we're going to follow the process."

So how is this different than the Department of Homeland Security's Enforcement Priorities program that prioritizes criminal felons? It's not.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed From Trump to Cruz, Gauging the Latino Presence at the Republican Convention 5:35 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

The idea of deporting over 11 million people is ludicrous. The cost of physically removing all of these individuals would be over $500 billion and that's not counting the larger impact on our economy which is estimated at over $1 trillion over the next twenty years.

RELATED: Trump Ends Convention as He Started Campaign: Linking Immigrants to Crime

But Trump doesn't seem to be constrained by such details - the logistics of the border wall are also not the most economically practical.

The rationale for his immigration pivot is simple - he wants to keep his base happy and win over some new supporters. His brand as a candidate is inextricably linked to being tough on immigration. At the same time the polls are making it increasingly clear that he can't win with the base alone.

So the new strategy is for Trump to hold steady on his wall pledge yet recant on his call for mass deportation. In other words, Trump wants his immigration cake and to eat it too.

We have seen time and again that Trump supporters are a forgiving bunch. They may let his deportation softening slide but for moderate Republicans and Republican Latinos it may be too little too late.

Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

*Thania Sanchez, Assistant Professor of Political Science at Yale University Thania Sanchez, Assistant Professor of Political Science at Yale University

What do we do with an incoming president whose early record includes dismissing the country's intelligence agencies if he doesn't like what they're saying and bullying journalists who dare to ask him questions?

Our answer is simple: We have to search for the truth, cling to it and spread it.

Those of us who study human rights raised alarms during the campaign about Donald Trump's candidacy as we saw his behavior and language; it was similar to that used by leaders in societies that have eventually exploited the human rights of vulnerable minorities.

One powerful tool these leaders use is the distortion of truth. Trump's record speaks for itself. Years ago, Trump falsely and repeatedly questioned President Obama's birth certificate. And after being elected president, he falsely tweeted that "millions" had voted illegally in November.

One way leaders in regimes exploit other groups, usually minorities, is to ignore facts and replace knowledge with emotional expressions to their followers.

This is why it is common to see authoritarian regimes silencing academics and creating powerful propaganda machines that disguise their message with fake facts in order to promote nationalistic stories that make their followers feel good.

Rallies are a favorite strategy for Donald Trump even after the election is over.

Rallies feed the emotions of people when they feel they lack power, control, or status in their lives. While each country, leader, and situation is different, the President elect's displays in rhetoric seem to be taking its direction from an autocrat's playbook.

We now see the rise of fake news and propaganda machines acting as legitimate news outlets. This rhetoric rejects science and facts and knowledge from experts, instead substituting substance for jingoistic narratives.

In this post-truth world, there are many lessons we can learn from the past to craft strategies to prepare for the future.

First and foremost, we need to cling to the truth and vigilantly reject the normalization of fake narratives. The collection of fake news must be countered with the accurate documentation and dissemination of facts.

Human rights organizations are key in helping to accurately document human rights abuses. Scholars know that civil society is one of the most important variables in making sure human rights do not deteriorate.

We need to support organizations that are keeping a close watch on what the administration is doing, particularly in places that are difficult to observe, such as ICE facilities, prisons, the border, CIA black sites abroad (secret prisons the US has abroad to detain suspects of the war on terror without following the international law) and minority neighborhoods.

RELATED: The 141 Stances Donald Trump Took During His White House Bid

We can help these groups by documenting and reporting any abuses ourselves. The ACLU has a handy app to record video that sends it directly to them. This can be a useful way to document and prevent authorities from controlling the narratives of events. Likewise, Human Rights Watch has set up an easy text based system called #callitout to report abuses. The Southern Poverty Law Center receives and corroborates reports of hate crimes. Documenting abuses will be particularly useful in controlling any fake narratives and holding local and state officials accountable for any violations of rights.

Something else we can do is report hate crimes and acts of discrimination, like the recent incident of the woman at the mall in Kentucky who went on a racist tirade against two Latina shoppers. We should report and record hate symbols, such as swastikas or graffiti that promotes hate. Discrimination from employment or housing should also be reported, as well as bullying of children and students.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Viral Video Shows Woman's Vitriolic Tirade Against Shoppers 1:23 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

As citizens, we need to be vigilant of the sources of the information we consume. We need to know which organizations produce accurate and trustworthy news and correct any misinformation when we encounter fake accounts or narratives.

We need to challenge others to provide evidence for their claims and challenge ourselves to be critical of the information we consume. We shouldn't rely solely on our circle of friends on social media for information. Once again, established human rights organizations can be relied upon to continue to provide accurate information.

RELATED: Trump Cites Police, Military, ICE Endorsements That Didn't Happen

In the past, human rights organizations have been able to hold fast to the truth and prevent leaders from spinning the truth into fake narratives.

It may seem overwhelming to an individual to know where to look, when to call, what to read and when to speak out, but with the help of organizations we can take concrete steps to stay vigilant, informed and engaged.

At a time when the impartiality of the media is called into question, there is a space for informed citizens to do their part. Although Trump may well continue challenging the norms of presidential behavior, we must remain steadfast in the defense of our democracy, and all of us can play our part.

Thania Sanchez, is an Assistant Professor of Political Science at Yale University.

*Arizona is the home of Barry Goldwater, the 1964 Republican presidential candidate to whom Donald Trump is often compared, and although Bill Clinton won the state in 1996, Republicans have long ruled the state.

But times are changing and a pivot to blue this election rests squarely on Latinos.

Polls released this week reflect what many already were seeing, a tightening of the presidential race in the state and the potential that Arizona as a blue state may become the rule sooner than expected.

A poll released by Arizona State University and the Arizona Republic on Wednesday showed the Clinton-Trump race in a dead heat with a large swath of registered voters still undecided. The poll had Clinton with 35.1 percent to Trump's 33.5 percent, with a margin of error of plus or minus 3.3 percent. The poll had 22.9 percent of registered voters undecided. Its Latino sample was small with a high margin of error.

In a head to head match up, Hillary Clinton beats Donald Trump 46 percent to 45 percent in a Washington-Post Survey Monkey poll. The online survey was conducted Aug. 9 to Sept. 1. The poll's Latino sample size for Arizona was 173 and Latinos favored Clinton 67 percent to 23 percent over Trump. The survey was done in English and Spanish.

An NBC/Survey Monkey Tracking poll released Aug. 23 showed Latino support across the country for Clinton over Trump, 73 percent to 22 percent.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed New poll shows surprising red state trends 8:17 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

Latinos in Arizona have gone from 18 percent of the population 20 years ago to close to a third today. It is the fourth largest Latino statewide share nationally. In the political arena this translates into 22 percent of eligible voters being Latino. And the Latino political voice will only grow with a larger share of millennial Latinos than the national average as well as a greater share of citizens by birth. Together these factors put Arizona Latinos on a path to increased political participation.

But demography is not destiny. Change to the Arizona political landscape by Latinos will require action, namely voting. In 2012, the turnout among Latino registered voters was about 17 percent, but about 48 percent did not register, according to the Willie C. Velasquez Institute.

This is where the state's harsh anti-immigrant tone and laws come into play. In 2010, SB 1070 was signed into law (although a couple of its provisions were overturned by the Supreme Court). Arizona became the poster child of extreme anti-immigrant laws.

RELATED: Clinton Beats Trump Among Latinos 76 Percent to 14 Percent

Arizona is also home to Sheriff Joe Arpaio who, after Trump, is the best-known opponent of comprehensive immigration reform. It's no coincidence that Donald Trump chose Arizona to deliver his speech where he doubled down on his enforcement only approach to immigration.

Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump speaks to voters during a campaign rally at Fredericksburg Expo Center August 20, 2016 in Fredericksburg, Virginia. Trump continues to campaign for the November presidential election with polls showing that he is trailing in many swing states, including Virginia. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images) Alex Wong / Getty Images

We've seen this politically charged anti-immigrant environment before and it's effects. In 1994 California experienced a similar (though shorter lived) anti-immigrant movement culminating in Proposition 187. The ballot initiative that excluded all undocumented persons from any state services (e.g. school or emergency rooms) passed, but was ultimately blocked by the courts.

California's Prop 187 didn't have the intended consequence of restricting basic government services from undocumented immigrants. Quite the contrary, it ended up mobilizing the state's Latino community - Latinos began to turn out, register and naturalize in numbers beyond those predicted by population growth alone.

RELATED: Opinion: Will Trump Be 2016's Prop 187 For Latino Voters?

Perhaps the bigger impact of Prop 187 is that it definitively distanced Latinos from the Republican Party that had supported the proposition. In 1992, 38 percent of California Latinos identified with the Democratic Party. Less than a decade later, that figure rose to 63 percent. Up until 1994, California was a swing state, but after the Latino awakening from Prop 187, California moved squarely into the blue state column.

In the course of four years, Latinos went from supporting Obama at a rate of 58 percent to 77 percent.

To be sure, Arizona is not California. And as a native Arizonan, I know. However, there is one important similarity - harsh GOP sponsored anti-immigrant measures in the context of a growing Latino electorate. The pattern of rapid Latino growth that California experienced in the 1990s is mirrored in the Grand Canyon state.

Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton looks on before she speaks at the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Union Hall on August 4, 2016 in Las Vegas. According to recent polls, Clinton leads her opponent Republican Donald Trump in several swing states including New Hampshire and Florida. David Becker / Getty Images

Evidence from the 2012 presidential election indicates that like in California, Latinos in Arizona were mobilized in response to Republican sponsored anti-immigrant legislation.

In 2008, the share of Latinos that voted for then-Sen. Barack Obama in Arizona was 14 percent less than the national average for Latinos. Arizona has been more conservative across the board - for Latinos and non-Latinos alike.

However, in the election after S.B. 1070, Arizona Latinos voted for Obama above the national Latino average. In the course of four years, Latinos went from supporting Obama at a rate of 58 percent to 77 percent.

RELATED: Opinion: From Arizona's Immigration Legacy to Trump

A group of political scientists ran the numbers to estimate what this Latino partisan shift and population growth in Arizona translates into. After some sophisticated number crunching, they found that in 2016 Democrats have a 53 percent chance of putting Arizona in the blue column.

There are a number of caveats in this statistical model, such as white non-Latino voting not surging and Latino turnout not dipping. Nevertheless, Arizona is in play. Even if Republicans carry Arizona it will be by the skin of their teeth and it will be one of the last times it happens. The Latino mobilization that Arizona's S.B. 1070 put into place is irreversible and together with population growth is a permanent political game changer.

Follow NBC News Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

*Hillary Clinton far undershot her estimate that only 25 percent of Trump supporters were deplorable. There are two easy facts about Trump supporters that are beyond dispute; they are either racist misogynists, or they are willing to vote for a racist misogynist. Hillary Clinton was forced to retract a sentiment that cut deep into the delicate ego of Trump supporters, who up until now have reveled in Donald Trump's famous call to "stop being politically correct".

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Clinton: 'I regret' comment on Trump supporters 7:09 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

But political correctness up until this point meant degrading Mexicans as rapists. Ending political correctness meant calling for the punishment of women for exercising their right to make decisions about their own bodies. Ending political correctness for Trump means mocking people with disabilities. Ending political correctness meant calling for registering Muslims in a collective presumption of guilt and unAmericanness not seen since the McCarthy era. Trump's proof that Muslims were unAmerican was a flat out fabrication, saying that Muslims were dancing in the streets when the World Trade Center fell on 9-11. Trump has retracted none of these statements.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Trump Wants Database to Track Muslims 1:32 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

Trump surrogates were excoriated this week for Trump's leadership and continued refusal to apologize for questioning the legitimacy of President Obama through the "birther movement" Trump helped to orchestrate.

Trump continues to praise Vladimir Putin, and doubled down by going on state-sponsored Russian Television repeating his admiration for him. But nowhere is there any apology from Trump for his outlandish behavior. Instead, Trump supporters like Rudy Giuliani are defending him.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Giuliani defends Trump's praise of Putin 10:47 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

After this week's Commander in Chief town hall event, male commentators and politicians said that Hillary Clinton's performance was a "draw" with Trump, not because she did not answer the questions, as Trump failed to do, but because she was "too detailed."

The head of the Republican National Committee, Reince Preibus, said that Hillary Clinton was unqualified for Commander in Chief because she did not smile. Rudy Giuliani said at a rally that Hillary Clinton's answers were too "long".

And once again, the media is failing to understand what "political correctness" in America really means.

"Political correctness" - Trump style - means ensuring safe spaces for racists and and white-male supremacy, and wrapping their rhetoric in the flag by calling it "freedom of speech", while participating in the continued assault on womanhood and the rights of minorities in the name of equal time.

Hillary Clinton's regret is merely one of saying the truth even when understating the problem. There is no debate as to whether or not Trump voters are ok with racism. It is the centerpiece of his campaign.

Every voter who supports him is okay with that, and the media continues to ignore this point. That is deplorable.

Stephen A. Nuo is a regular contributor to NBC Latino.

Follow NBC News Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

*I admit, this election has evoked immense fear, nostalgia and uncertainty within me. Soon after realizing Donald Trump was headed for the White House on Tuesday night, I could not control the tears flooding down my cheeks as I felt the darkness of his presidency creeping in.

A drowning sense of hopelessness and desolation quickly took over me as I sat next next to my husband, crying. I cried for humanity, for women, for the LGBTQ community. I cried for my friends who are African-Americans and Muslim-Americans, I cried for our environment.

But most of all, I cried for the millions of immigrants, like my family and DACA recipients like myself, whose future in America was more uncertain than ever. I wish I could say I cried myself to sleep that night, but the outcome of the election even took that away from me.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed President-elect Donald Trump speaks out on immigration, abortion, wall 3:11 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

During Trump's presidential campaign, one of the first actions he promised to take  apart from deporting 11 million undocumented immigrants  was to revoke President Obama's Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), an executive order that allows undocumented immigrants who were brought to the U.S. as children to work and study without fear of deportation.

The thought of DACA's repeal has since shaken me to my core. Without DACA, more than 800,000 individuals like myself would lose their jobs and financial stability. DACAmented professionals have been working as teachers, healthcare workers and engineers and are paying taxes, volunteering and investing in their communities. Instead of making great contributions to our country they would be forced back into the darkness and desolation of the shadows.

RELATED: What Successful Young Immigrants #WithDACA Want Trump to Know

Just when I thought Wednesday couldn't get any worse, that evening, I stopped by my parents' home to see how they were doing. I will never forget the expression on my baby brother's face when I walked through the door.

"Trump won," he whispered as I hugged him. I could feel him burying his little face in my chest. I could feel his fear. "Are you going to take care of us?"

Are you going to take care of us? His question hung heavily in the air, creating a knot in my throat. It was a question no 6-year-old child should ever have to ask. What would happen to my three little brothersall U.S. citizensif our family got separated?

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed How is the Latino community reacting to a Trump Presidency? 5:18 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

In that moment, it took all of my strength to fight back the tears that were swelling up again. I needed to be strong for them.

Suddenly, a quote Mrs. Serrano, my former English teacher, made us memorize in 11th grade, flashes in my mind. "These are the times that try men's souls...Tyranny, like hell, is not easily conquered; yet we have this consolation with us, that the harder the conflict, the more glorious the triumph."

I find it hard to fathom that in 2016 despite all of the strides we have made as a country the words of Thomas Paine, one of our Founding Fathers during the American Revolution, are lingering in my mind.

Who would have ever thought we would be in this situation?

At this point, it seems there is little we can do to stop Trump from taking office come January 20, 2017. But while the world looks upon us with laughter and mockery, we must realize that the outcome of the election does not define who America is or what we stand for.

RELATED: Latinos Who Voted, Campaigned For Trump Found Common Ground With Him

Trump may have won by the Electoral College, but he did not win by popular vote. The president-elect may have a quite a following, but millions of Americans and billions more around the world feel the way we do. We are not alone.

Despite the turmoil afflicting our country, the loudest voices aren't always right. This time, more than ever, we must fight to be louder than they are. Alone, we don't stand a chance against the segment who now feels empowered to raise their voices in favor of racism, xenophobia and misogyny. Together, the rest of America, including women, Muslim-Americans, African-Americans, Mexican-Americans, the LGBTQ community and immigrants are a force to be reckoned with. Our voices matter. We matter.

RELATED: Trump Transition Filled with Hardline Anti-Immigration Advocates

Now is not the time to fight among us but to unite and mobilize for the greater good of the country we all love and are proud to call home. Now is not the time to shy away from reality and refuse to question the legality of the world around us but it's a time to read, seek knowledge and ask questions. Now is not the time to point fingers, but to look within us and bring forth the change we want to see in the world.

One of the many things that has always made America special is our diversity. We must use that diversity to our advantage and let it be our strength; our power. We must not let our voices that demand equality and respect be silenced by those who chant with hate and malice. We must speak up and stand together.

I don't know what fate awaits us in January, or let alone the next four years of a Trump presidency. I am absolutely terrified of not knowing what will become of my family or the millions of hard-working immigrants in our country after he takes office.

What I do know for sure is that I love America, this is my country and this is my home.

I reject the notion that we have succumbed to a place of no return. I have faith and ardently hope that the leaders in office will hear the cries of the people and fears of children who are the future of America, and find it in their hearts to do the right thing.

Follow NBC News Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

*The polling numbers for Donald Trump are looking bad, and Republicans across the party are distancing themselves from his controversial outbursts, whether it be calling Mexicans rapists, or disparaging the Muslim parents of a fallen American soldier. But will Republicans try to avoid another Trump after November if the predictions of impending doom for the GOP come true? The short answer is no, because the GOP has been infected with racism for decades and continues to show no sign of confronting the truth about the voters who put Trump in power to begin with.

Part of the reason that the GOP has no incentive to look racists in the eye and start cultivating minority voters is the tired old argument that Republicans don't really need them to win elections.

In a recent article, New York Times "Upshot" elections analyst Nate Cohn argued that the Latino vote is overrated, and that a legitimate Republican candidate can make up losses in the Latino vote by appealing to white voters.

Is the Latino Vote "Overrated"?

"They're just not a large enough share of the electorate. They're a key component of Clinton's coalition, but they're small enough that they can be 'jumped,' " stated Cohn about Latino voters.

This is a comforting argument for Republicans, because it reinforces the notion that they are right to ignore Latinos or antagonize them in pursuit of more white voters, meanwhile convincing them that the rising water in the underdecks of the party ship is an illusion.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Trump: Mexico Sends its Problems To The U.S. 1:23 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

When asked about the Trump campaign's outreach effort into the Latino community and whether there has been any attempt to rectify his incendiary rhetoric with Latino Republicans, Artemio Muniz, a member of the Latino Conservative Leaders group flat out said, "No".

Muniz, a Hispanic Republican who is not supporting Trump, told me that "so long as he does not understand a need for a change in our immigration system there is no effective outreach by the Trump campaign."

Until we confront the racist undertones of the Republican party, the GOP will not change.

At the local level, Republicans have been able to game the electoral system through gerrymandering and erecting barriers to participation for minorities. In some areas, there currently is no incentive to expand their outreach at the local level.

Yet Republican leaders see the long game, and they know they have a problem with Latinos and other minorities; they said as much after Romney was trounced in 2012.

And months before the 2016 election, there isn't much the party leadership can do because they are beholden to the angry elements of the party, the ones who put Trump in the driver's seat. It's this loud faction that's hanging on to their ancient values which have been hardwired into the country from the beginning.

Until we confront the racist undertones of the Republican party, the GOP will not change.

But here's the thing, Republicans don't have the luxury of doing nothing. NBC's Mark Murray reported that the latest polls show Clinton leading in battleground states such as Virginia, Colorado, and North Carolina. Moreover, whatever post-convention bounce the Clinton campaign got after July seems to be solidifying.

If the numbers hold and Trump continues to train-wreck his way into November, it won't be a big secret why he was so appealing to Republican voters. Trump was able to touch the exposed nerve of racism that is central to American politics but many still refuse to acknowledge it.

Why Identity Matters, and Why the GOP Doesn't Get It

Even if the GOP fully took responsibility for what the party has become, it doesn't mean they will be able to fix the problem because the country still has to come to terms with what racism is.

And this is what journalists and pundits don't get about the "math" of American politics amid the discussions of "white" and "Latino" voters.

The reality, and tragedy, is that the two identities  "white" and "Latino"  are different social constructions which have an important political significance. Historically, whiteness has been used interchangeably with American. The Trump voter psychologically equates whiteness with Americanness.

Whiteness is a constricting identity; this means that the importance of whiteness is specifically about who is not white. Historically, whiteness has essentially meant that you are not black, but increasingly it means you are also not "illegal", not a "Muslim", not "Latino", not "gay", etc.

An appeal to whiteness is necessarily limiting because of what whiteness has been defined as in American history.

By contrast, when you appeal to African-Americans, Latinos, LGBT-Americans, and so on, you are doing the exact opposite. Rather than constricting your vision of Americans as with whiteness, you are expanding your reach into a larger tent. In today's demographic reality, appealing to whiteness limits your political calculus, it does not improve it.

RELATED: Polls: Clinton Running the Table in Key Battlegrounds

In a year where Trump has stripped the faade off the Republican party's motivations, analysts and pundits have long discussed the forces behind Trump through the prism of "economic anxiety" while straining to avoid the "r word"  racism.

Republicans in California bought into this argument for decades and banked their political futures on it; the disastrous results that followed Prop 187 say it all. Colorado and Virginia Republicans took the same path and it looks like they will face the same fate.

White Voters are Not Monolithic

Like Latinos, the "white vote" is also not monolithic. For instance, there are progressive whites who will not tolerate explicit appeals to whiteness, and single white women for whom any appeal to their racial identity will fall flat under the current Republican program of hostility towards women in the workplace and their reproductive rights.

Donald Trump signs autographs during a rally at the International Exposition Center March 12, 2016 in Cleveland, Ohio. Donald Trump is under fire from rivals who blamed his incendiary rhetoric for a violent outbreak Friday between protesters and supporters at the Republican frontrunner's rally in Chicago. / AFP PHOTO / Brendan SmialowskiBRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AFP/Getty Images BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI / AFP - Getty Images

So what some simply call "white voters" really means white male voters and their dependents, ie. their wives and assorted minority aspirants, or what a prominent Republican calls "white nationalism".

In an article in Vox, Avik Roy says, "The fact is, today, the Republican coalition has inherited the people who opposed the Civil Rights Act of 1964  the Southern Democrats who are now Republicans."

The problem analysts and pundits are ignoring is not a mathematical problem, but a political one.

Two Theories that Explain Trump

Two theories have emerged to explain Donald Trump; the "Hillbilly theory" and "contact theory".

The first posits that Trump supporters are largely uneducated, unsophisticated racists who are emboldened by Trump's bravado against Muslims, Mexicans, immigrants, etc. "Contact theory" posits that greater contact with diversity makes one less likely to be hostile to it.

So what about Trump voters? Those who are overwhelmingly white, more affluent, and just as educated as other whites have quite literally walled themselves off from the rest of America, and have simply had less contact, through their own volition, with the changing face of America. Their imaginations about the demographic changes in the country have gone wild largely thanks to the encouragement of the Republican party over the last few decades.

Whiteness is less about what someone is, and more about what someone is not  which can turn off wide swaths of voters.

These theories are not exclusive, meaning both can be occurring at the same time, and indeed, critical race theorists have written plenty on the racial bond between affluent and poor whites in America. This bond is frankly, the supremacy of white masculinity, but its appeal also has limitations. In fact, James Baldwin claimed that there was no such thing as a "white community" at all, only an alliance of European immigrants who have made a "moral choice".

This moral choice is the country's original sin, of course.

But even assuming the GOP is able to succeed, the math is becoming increasingly difficult to achieve. Philip Bump of the Washington Post summarizes the math problem inherent in a white strategy; the Republicans already get 90 percent of their votes from white voters, but the problem is, as Bump says, "the white vote doesn't go as far as it once did."

The demographic growth of Latinos is more than just numbers, but about culture. As the Latino vote grows, so does Latino contact with whites, through marriage and everyday social and economic interactions.

Some argue that many Latinos may cease to identify as Latino and internalize whiteness as an alternative, but hostility towards Latinos has the opposite effect, strengthening Latino identity, rather than dissipating it.

RELATED: Trump May Be Boon for Down-Ballot Dems, LGBT Rights in Arizona, Georgia

Today, one in three Americans live in five states, California, Texas, New York, Florida, and Illinois. The politics of identity is changing, and the GOP must atone for the past if they will have any chance at a future in national politics.

This puts Republicans in an existential bind. They can continue to appeal to traditional notions of whiteness, ie. white male superiority. But whiteness is less about what someone is, and more about what someone is not. This means any appeal to whiteness will necessarily seek to define who does not belong to the Republican vision of America, thus turning off wide swaths of voters that don't see themselves in that limited world view.

We already know what that looks like thanks to Donald Trump. Trump has spent a year defining who is not American, and one look at his rallies makes it not only obvious who this appeals to, but also how homogeneous it is. Those still hanging to this world view of white privilege have been constrained by the changing demographics of the country.

The Trump campaign has all the makings of a disaster for the GOP which may reverberate on down the ticket throughout state and local elections, from Arizona to Georgia. This could be a watershed moment for the Republican Party. But the first order of business will be for the Republican Party to look into the mirror and see just how un-American the party has become.

Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

*As a child of the 1990s I appreciated the Three Amigosesque reference to the bad hombres Trump made in the final presidential debate.

The famous (or infamous) Donald Trump has come full circle. He launched his campaign over a year ago railing against Mexico sending immigrant "rapists" and drug dealers. More than a year later his closing pitch to the American public is his insistence he'll keep out the bad hombres.

That's too bad, and it's too bad for his party.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Defending Border Stance, Trump Adds, 'We Have Some Bad Hombres Here' 0:19 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

Donald Trump has come full circle with his immigration rhetoric, but he did it by ditching the Republican Party strategy, which had undergone a 180-degree turnabout on the issue when it came to presidential elections.

The GOP and its 2016 nominee have parted ways on a number of issues, but perhaps none so sharply as immigration and outreach to Latinos. The basis for these differing strategies boils down to what it takes to win the presidency.

Everyone can agree that elections are a numbers game. More votes equals a win, pretty plain and simple. But where it gets tricky is the path to that win.

RELATED: Debate Was Short On Immigration, But #BadHombres Was Trending

For the last 15 or 20 years the Republican Party has recognized that they need to open up the partisan tent and bring in more voters. Until recently, one of the groups the GOP had been targeting was Latinos.

In the past, the diverse Hispanic electorate had proven friendly to Republican candidates. For example in 2004, George W. Bush won upwards of 40 percent of the Latino vote.

In 2013 on the heels of Mitt Romney's loss to President Obama, the GOP produced an autopsy report. In recounting what went wrong and setting out how to fix it, the main takeaway was essentially this: Don't insult and alienate Latinos  we need them!

Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump gestures as he speaks during the third and final U.S. presidential debate at the Thomas & Mack Center on Oct. 19, 2016 in Las Vegas, Nevada. Win McNamee / Getty Images

But enter Donald Trump, who took a completely different path to primary victory. Instead of broadening the Republican coalition, he subscribed to an alternate theory  bring back disenchanted white voters into the fold. Forget the big tent, just build a beautiful wall.

This idea was first laid out in 2013 by Real Clear Politics' Sean Trende. In "The Case of the Missing White Voters, Revisited" Trende summarizes his research that lays out how the GOP could win the presidency by boosting the numbers of white voters that have been in decline.

RELATED: 'Game Over, Donald': Our Latino Panel Rates the Debate

Trende points out how the most salient demographic change was in the number of white voters from 2008 to 2012. He walks through the data and then discusses who in particular these voters are, mainly rural, rust-belt whites. Coincidentally these seem to be the very same voters that Donald Trump has been appealing to since day 1.

Democratic presidential nominee former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton (R) speaks as Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump looks on during the third U.S. presidential debate. Mark Ralston / Pool via Getty Images

Trump took Trende's theory to heart. Rather than reach out to minorities he decided to double down on white voters.

More specifically, he implemented a divide-and-conquer strategy to win the presidency. Trump has drawn on the economic frustrations and worries of working-class whites and spun them toward the blaming of the "other"  especially immigrant Latinos.

Trump's recipe for victory rested on low Latino turnout and anger-boosted white turnout. Or in Trump talk - he was hoping the bad hombres wouldn't turn out and the disenchanted white turnout would be huge, or "yuuge." .

The election is not over yet. Until then we can't definitively say whether the "big tent" or the "divide and conquer" strategy was the best for the GOP.

One thing's more certain. Even in the off chance that the divide and conquer strategy wins this time around, the reality is that it's demographically unsustainable.

Numbers don't lie and the demographic reality is that "the" Latinos are here to stay and only growing in size. You might as well get used to it and keep the open tent.

Follow NBC News Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

*Varying shades of deportation plans and building a border wall have dominated Trump's political discourse. He's firm on building a wall and mushy on what to do with the 11 million undocumented immigrants in this country  especially now that he has to talk about actual plans.

One thing that has been missing from Trump's immigration back-and-forth has been what to do about the employers who hire undocumented immigrants. Immigrants come to the United States because there are people who want to employ them. If there wasn't a demand there wouldn't be much of a supply of immigrants - the Law of Supply and Demand, it's Economics 101.

As a businessman, Trump should be keenly aware that American business demands attract undocumented labor. In fact, Trump himself has been accused of having undocumented labor on his projects - including his current Washington D.C. hotel.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Breaking down Trump's 'softening' on immigration 7:37 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

Perhaps this is why Trump hasn't hammered away at the employers who are creating the immigration pull. His stump speeches don't talk about how employer sanctions can go a long way to solving immigration.

But, to Trump's credit, in his immigration plan posted on his website, Immigration Reform That Will Make America Great Again document Trump calls for mandatory E-Verify and states that, "this simple measure will protect jobs for unemployed Americans."

RELATED: Analysis: Latino Experts See More Race-Baiting in Trump 'Flip-Flop'

E-Verify is a program that checks an employee's personal data, supplied on an I-9 form, against Department of Homeland Security data as well as that of the Social Security Administration.

Sounds like a simple way to ensure that employers are following the law. It is, except that it is a voluntary program. The idea of E-Verify is a good one - help employers follow the law and by extension address the problem of illegal immigration. But what about those employers that don't care about the status of their employees or hire under the table?

The punishing of employers who don't follow the letter of the immigration law began with the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act. Before then, outside of random immigration raids there was no penalty or deterrent for hiring undocumented persons. The employer sanctions provision was a principal pillar of IRCA and in theory should have resolved the issue of illegal entry once and for all.

RELATED: GOP Hispanics: Trump Open to Easing His Policies On Undocumented

In practice IRCA's employer sanctions were a dud.

The government never put the resources and manpower needed into effectively investigating and prosecuting illegal hiring practices. Add to that, the re-prioritization of national security concerns after 9/11. A study from the Migration Policy Institute shows, there was initial zeal in investigating cases and issuing fines in the late 1980s and early 1990s but that quickly tapered off.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Trump set to clarify immigration stance 4:35 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

Aside from the anemic enforcement of employer sanctions is the cost of the fines themselves. Bad behavior will stop only if it is punished sufficiently. The current schedule of fines is not prohibitive - especially for businesses with revenue in the millions.

RELATED: Latino, Black Leaders: Trump in 'Panic Mode,' 'Becoming Unhinged'

If you're caught hiring an undocumented immigrant the fine can range from $375 to $3,200 for the first offense and the fees go up from there. Perhaps if the fines were exponentially higher on the first go around, employers wouldn't try their luck a second or third time.

A program that fines in the five to six figure range and was actually enforced would go a long way in reducing the demand for workers who are undocumented. By the way, it's a lot cheaper and realistic than a wall.

If Donald Trump  who touts his business experience and acumen  is serious about addressing illegal border crossers, then why doesn't he talk about how American businesses feed into a system he condemns?

Perhaps emphasizing employers doesn't fit into his rhetoric. Trump likes to talk tough about immigrants who break the law, so now's his chance to be tough on employers who break the law too.

Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

*Rep. Mike Conaway, a Texas Republican, made a remarkable statement last week. In a desperate attempt to give comfort to Vladimir Putin, Conaway equated Russia's state-sponsored orchestration of a massive disinformation campaign meant to influence the presidential election to Mexican-American entertainers showing Democrats support.

"Harry Reid and the Democrats brought in Mexican soap opera stars, singers and entertainers who had immense influence in those communities into Las Vegas, to entertain, get out the vote and so forth," Conaway told The Dallas Morning News last week. "Those are foreign actors, foreign people, influencing the vote in Nevada. You don't hear the Democrats screaming and saying one word about that."

Man and Los Tigres Del Norte perform onstage during the 16th Annual Latin GRAMMY Awards held at MGM Grand Garden Arena on November 19, 2015 in Las Vegas, Nevada. Michael Tran / FilmMagic

RELATED: Vicente Fernndez Endorses Hillary Clinton Through a 'Corrido'

The immediate response by Hispanic leaders was ridicule, justifiably so. Sen. Catherine Cortez Masto of Nevada, a Democrat and the first Latina to become a U.S. senator, called Conaway's statement "pathetic". Rep. Joaqun Castro, D-Texas, was flummoxed by Conaway's comparison of music icon Vicente Fernandez to cyberwarfare, saying it must have been a joke.

This is a pathetic and offensive attempt to try to diminish the consensus that Russia meddled in the 2016 election to boost Donald Trump. https://t.co/XEVmmLatBD  Senator Cortez Masto (@SenCortezMasto) January 13, 2017

But the only bad joke is how far Republicans are willing to stretch irony and patriotism at the expense of national security in favor of our enemies. Perhaps Conaway missed the Republican National Convention in 2000 where Vicente Fernandez performed, endorsing his Republican neighbor from Midland, former President George W. Bush.

The members of the band Los Tigres del Norte, who have been based in California for decades, responded by saying that "We are part of this society." Masto reminded Conaway that the members of Los Tigres del Norte, as well as award-winning actress Anglica Mara, are United States citizens, with Mara being born in New Orleans.

But the deeper issue is how reflexively Republicans turn to racism and appeals that are meant to exclude Latinos from our common American identity when left without any responsible excuse for justifying Russian intrusion in our electoral process. Conaway's race baiting is, frankly, the only argument he has. To distract the attention his constituents may give to his turncoat acceptance of foreign influence by essentially saying his fellow Americans who are minorities are no different than foreign enemies.

On the day we celebrate Martin Luther King Jr., we should remember that Conaway's thinking is the American disease that has inflicted our soul from before our government was created.

*As Puerto Rico, a U.S. territory, grapples with a severe crisis, we are publishing opinion pieces reflecting different views on the situation; these are the writers' personal views.

SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico  Congress is feeling the heat on Puerto Rico, but something is not always better than nothing.

Republican members of Congress are feeling the pressure stemming from several sides: Bondholders who seek a financial control board that maximizes the highest possible debt payments, the upcoming Supreme Court decision about the legitimacy of a state bankruptcy law and the arrival of more than 660,000 Puerto Rican migrants in the last nine years to key electoral states such as Florida and New York. (These are now new members of the Democrat's Party).

This Sept. 23, 2014 photo, shows an aerial view of the Santurce neighborhood in San Juan, Puerto Rico. The area had deteriorated in the 1970s as people moved out to suburbs near San Juan. Many who stayed behind were immigrants, mostly from the Dominican Republic and often living in large blocks of public housing dominated by drug gangs amid surging crime in the 1990s. Now a new generation of young islanders are reinvesting in the area. Ricardo Arduengo / AP

But there are even more pressures affecting the best interests of the US government. For one, almost half of the islanders leaving for the mainland are poor, creating a demand for more public services. A massive default from Puerto Rican bonds can create a financial contagion in the U.S. municipal bond market. Moreover, U.S. exports  especially agricultural products  to Puerto Rico will be reduced even further if the Great Depression of Puerto Rico deepens. Don't forget it's 2016, and mainland Puerto Ricans and Latinos can make the situation a thorny political issue in the political campaign.

RELATED: As Clock Ticks on Debt Payment, Puerto Rico Braces for What's Next

The U.S. government has a shared responsibility on the Puerto Rican crisis that has to be addressed. The U.S. destroyed the Puerto Rican economy by removing tax incentives for manufacturing without providing or allowing enough time for a new economic plan a fact some of us can verify using advanced statistics.

They banned access to both federal and local bankruptcy laws that would allow the restructuring of 70 percent of the debt that was issued by government-owned corporations and municipalities (whose bonds are not subject to constitutional priorities), and since the early 20th century they limited Puerto Rican export competitiveness by imposing navigation acts (Jones Act) that force the island to pay the most expensive vessels in the world, among others.

Instead of buying the debt and providing a few years before repayment  this could be easily done by the Federal Reserve or by the Department of Treasury, as done with corporations even when the well-being of millions of people was not in jeopardy  the executive branch has wisely decided to pass the responsibility to the Congress, which lets the executive branch have someone to blame.

RELATED: Voices: While History Is Made in Cuba, What About Puerto Rico?

The U.S. could have provided tools to restore economic development. It could have applied the Earned Income Tax Credit, removed navigation acts, formalized incentives to U.S. firms located in Puerto Rico and provided parity in Medicaid and Medicare. Instead, Congressional Republicans introduced a bill insisting on imposing a Fiscal Control Board that will exacerbate both economic downturn and poverty (by reducing aggregate demand and public services with austerity programs) and will ultimately lead to a even higher migration with the aforementioned consequences.

Under these circumstances, the best strategy for Puerto Rico and its allies is to block any bill that includes a fiscal control board (even if they call it "oversight board"), to declare a moratorium on debt payments in Puerto Rico, and to audit the whole debt (to uncover illegal debt issued over constitutional limits and under fraud). These actions will put higher pressure on both Washington and bondholders. Hedge funds can sue but any case in the court would take years to be resolved. This would actually help the Puerto Rican government gain time to stop paying their unsustainable debt and use saved money to provide public services and to stimulate economic growth. In that case the government should hire a few lawyers as "transition workers" to avoid hiring expensive law firms.

The Puerto Rican people have suffered enough with their Great Depression. Thus, until those development and restructuring mechanisms are provided, Puerto Rico should tell Congress "thanks, but no thanks."

Jos Caraballo-Cueto has a Ph.D. in economics and is the Director of the Census Information Center at the University of Puerto Rico, where he is also a regular researcher and professor of finance and statistics.

Follow NBC News Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

*Donald J. Trump is going to have a busy 2017. He's staying on as executive producer of "Celebrity Apprentice" while becoming the 45th Chief Executive of the United States. If there's one redeeming quality the president-elect possesses, it's that he's never met a marketing opportunity he could resist. I have an offer he can't refuse.

Sitting on my old desk at the Department of Labor right now is a memo detailing a ready-made, low risk, high reward and bipartisan federal jobs program that bears a similar name to Trump's television program. It's called Registered Apprenticeship.

Ammar Campa-Najjar Kevin Kennedy

"Apprenticeships," explains U.S. Secretary of Labor Tom Perez in a statement, "are a time-tested, earn-while-you-learn model that helps create opportunities for American workers to succeed while providing employers with the reliable pipeline of skilled talent they need to thrive in today's global economy."

It almost sounds too good to be true: Someone hires you, trains you and unlike most internships, you're earning a living wage while learning. And unlike college, apprenticeship is "education without the debt," as Secretary Perez frames it, with a guaranteed job at the end of the program. Apprentices gain while they train.

Today, apprenticeship is not just the preferred recruitment model for employers in traditional industries like construction and manufacturing, but also for a diversified set of high-growth sectors, including information technology, financial services, advanced manufacturing and health care. It's the answer for the blue collar worker who sees times are changing and wants to retool, learn new skills, and remain employable in today's economy.

This program may be the only thing Republicans and Democrats agreed on in 2016. For the first time ever last year, Congress made a bipartisan decision to appropriate over $90 million specifically toward financing apprenticeship programs.

To date, the Obama administration has invested more than $300 million to deliver on President Obama's challenge to double the number of registered apprenticeships within five years. Double and diversify, that's the future of apprenticeship.

Trump and his team should try to surpass our goal. Apprenticeship is a win-win for both job seekers and businesses alike.

The average apprentice earns above $60,000 a year; that's more than double the median individual income in America. Studies also show that for every dollar spent on apprenticeship, businesses get an average of $1.47 back in increased productivity and greater front-line innovation.

RELATED: Ford Commits to $700M U.S. Plant as Trump Blasts GM on Mexican-Made Chevy

These job training programs are part of why president-elect Trump is inheriting a far better economy than the one we inherited in 2008. If Trump really wants to make it morning in America for his 62 million supporters, he should invest aggressively in apprenticeship.

There's an undeniable tailwind guiding our economy in the right direction. The economic headlines are good, but the trend lines are where the work needs to continue.

We've created almost 16 million jobs since 2010, so roughly eleven million more jobs exist today than compared to late 2007, before the Great Recession. If you look at the demographic breakdown, however, Hispanics secured more than half of those net new jobs. Other minority groups also gained millions more jobs than they lost during the recession. But white workers, who account for 78 percent of the labor force, lost more than 700,000 net jobs over the nine years. Why is that?

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Woman welders mix friends and fun with fire 3:23 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

First, minority populations are growing more rapidly than their counterparts, so naturally jobs are trending in the same direction. Still, it's inaccurate to assume these populations aren't struggling. American Indians and Alaska Natives have the highest poverty rate (close to 30 percent), followed by African Americans (27 percent), Hispanics (26 percent), and whites (10 percent).

We need to attack the problem of poverty and unemployment on all fronts. That's why Secretary Perez's Labor Department issued a final rule on apprenticeship extending current protections against discrimination to include disability, age (40 years or older), genetic information and sexual orientation.

Second, the data shows the economy is growing in a way that favors specific regions, not races. Before a company invests in an area, one of the first criteria is whether the location will attract the most costumers.

Considering that 95 percent of the world's consumer market exists outside the United States, businesses are trending towards areas that have a global reach, places that welcome tourism and are a direct flight or metro ride away, or at the very least freeway accessible. This is why America's big cities - which are densely and diversely populated - are enjoying a majority of the economic gains compared to rural areas which are predominantly white.

RELATED: Is Universal Basic Income the Answer to an Automated Future?

We need to fix this. Like generations before us, one of the most defining issues of our time is ensuring that economic prosperity is broadly shared, across every geography and demography.

In an opinion piece penned by Secretary Tom Perez and Secretary Tom Vilsack, we see a promising trend emerging. With the cost-saving incentive to offshore jobs in sharp decline, businesses are seizing the opportunity to bring well-paying IT jobs to rural areas. Tech apprenticeships are working in all fifty states in places like central Jonesboro, Arkansas; Kearney, Nebraska; eastern Kentucky and Memphis, Tennessee where the highest poverty rate in the nation exists.

Apprenticeship can help the worker in rural America who was laid off because of forces beyond his control - technology that's automated his job or a worker on the other side of the world who will do the job for half the cost. If the next administration invests the right way, he won't have to leave his community for a big city job; the big city job will come to him.

RELATED: 'Made in USA' fuels new manufacturing hubs in apparel

But as I learned from Secretary Perez, who makes frequent "house calls" to workers around the country, this problem isn't just about the economy, it's about empathy. That laid off worker's job meant more than just a steady paycheck. For years, that factory worker broke down his body to build up his family, just like his father before. He knew if he worked hard and took on a few extra shifts during the holidays, he'd make and save enough for the ones he loved. He took pride in working with his hands, and hoped to pass down the family trade to his children. Every evening he'd pull up to the driveway just in time for dinner, rinse his oil-stained hands under the kitchen sink, and look at his children with eyes that said, "one day, these will be your hands."

That factory stored more than goods and supplies; it housed cherished memories and a revered history. It was a sacred place, once re-purposed during World War II, where his mother went to work to build the tanks and planes that joined his father on the shores of Normandy. It was a workplace and a place of worship. It was both a family and national monument.

So it's not just about a factory worker losing his job  it's about an American letting go of his dream. There are millions more just like him, whose dreams are being crushed by the rapid realities and demands of a 21st century global economy.

We can't force businesses to hire workers for jobs they no longer need, but we also can't force people to give up on their dreams. As an apprentice, that factory worker will be creating the code and building the automated machine that once replaced him. And with tech jobs paying about 50 percent more than the average job, that paycheck would go a long way for his family.

Americans are a resilient people. By retooling and retraining our workers, we can help them reimagine their lives and cast their dreams anew.

RELATED: Could Trump Really Bring Back Manufacturing Jobs?

I'm proud of the work my colleagues and I did under President Obama's leadership. Together, we implemented programs and policies that led to the most successful economic recovery in history. I can honestly say we left it all on the field, but there still remains a lot of unfinished work ahead.

The change promised eight years ago was always going to take longer than one presidency; it's why many people don't yet feel the benefits of an economic comeback they helped build. It's why I hope the next presidency continues to build on the gains we've made until every community feels fully recovered.

I know we live in divided times, but I remain hopeful. Through every trial and every triumph, Americans have always found a way to come together in the end. We need to break down barriers and swing open the doors of opportunity, long enough and wide enough, so that our entire country can walk through and pave a path toward a unified future. Let us recommit ourselves, today and every day, to the common cause of building an America that works for everyone - state by state, community by community, one worker's dream at a time.

Ammar Campa-Najjar is a former Obama administration official.

Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

*Immigrant voters are increasingly seen as a key voting bloc, and this presidential election year is no exception. Yet what's rarely discussed are the many hurdles that effectively prevent many immigrant voters from going to the polls, with the biggest barrier being access to voting materials and ballots in their native language.

Imagine you're a newly registered immigrant voter from Bangladesh, or China, or Vietnam at the voting booth this November. It's already taken years after coming to the United States to become a citizen. On Election Day, you've somehow found your polling place, despite the fact that every mailer you've received is only in English, a language you don't read. You finally make it through the line, only to receive a ballot, again in English. You don't know exactly who you're voting for, or how to correctly fill it out. None of the poll workers speak your language, so they can't offer any assistance.

Frustrating, right? Yet this is the reality that millions of Asian-American voters face when they contemplate casting a ballot during every election cycle.

A woman walks past a polling place in San Francisco's Chinatown Tuesday, Nov. 8, 2011. Ben Margot / AP

At a time when voting rights are under attack in states around the country, the largest obstacle for many AAPI (Asian American and Pacific Islander) voters is perfectly legal. Language access is an issue that few outside the AAPI community are talking about, yet it's one that makes a critical difference in whether Asian American voters come out to cast ballots. It's widely noted that, out of all racial groups, Asian Americans are the least likely to register to vote as well as turn out on Election Day.

RELATED: Asian-American Population Surges, But Voter Turnout Still Lacks

While some turn to cultural reasons, the truth becomes clear when one actually asks registered voters why they don't vote. In 2012, eight percent of AAPI registered voters who are limited English proficient and didn't cast a ballot cited that it was language barriers that prevented them from voting, and the advocacy group Asian Americans Advancing Justice found that turnout was nine percent lower for voters who aren't comfortable speaking or reading English when compared with the rest of the electorate.

 In a year when the votes cast by immigrant voters are projected to be the margin of victory in states around the country, its time we talk about language access.

When almost two-thirds of Asian-American eligible voters are immigrants, a large number of whom prefer to read, write, and speak their native language, having translated election materials and ballots makes all the difference.

Yet there is a critical translation need that isn't addressed by our existing laws, systems, or infrastructure. When the Voting Rights Act was passed in 1965, Asian Americans made up a minuscule 0.5 percent of the country's population, with the vast majority living in Hawaii and in cities on the East and West Coasts.

A decade later in 1975, Congress amended the Voting Rights Act by adding Section 203 mandating bilingual ballots in certain districts where five percent of the population speaks a language other than English, reflecting the reality that, due to language barriers, Latinos, Asian Americans, and Native Americans in particular "have been effectively excluded from participation in the electoral process."

Yet despite this amendment, and subsequent additions, our laws and institutions haven't been able to keep pace with the incredible growth and change in the Asian-American population. The AAPI population in the U.S. grew by almost 50 percent between 2000 and 2010, with some of the most rapid growth in key swing states like Nevada, Virginia, and North Carolina.

A new AARP report finds the economic health of Asian Americans age 65 and older to be much worse than the general US population of the same age. LOU DEMATTEIS / REUTERS

Today, there are more than 20 million Asian Americans who live in cities and states all around the US, speaking more than 100 distinct languages and dialects  yet only 11 states have counties or cities that, under the mandate of the Voting Rights Act, are required to provide election materials in at least one Asian language. This list, however, doesn't include most of the states that have the fastest-growing AAPI populations.

RELATED: Can This New App Help More Asian Americans Vote in 2016?

History shows that when Asian-American voters have access to in-language materials, participation in our democratic process increases dramatically. In Harris County, Texas, the turnout in Vietnamese-American voters doubled once the county began abiding by the language-access provisions of the VRA.

In a year when the votes cast by immigrant voters are projected to be the margin of victory in states around the country, it's time we talk about language access. Not only must we fight back against the gutting of key provisions of the Voting Rights Act as well as expand its language access provisions, we also need to create community-based solutions that step in to assist AAPI voters that are currently being de facto excluded from casting a ballot this election season. That's why, at 18MillionRising.org, we created VoterVOX, an online tool that connects immigrant voters to volunteers who work with them to translate and fill in ballots.

All of this is necessary in order to finally make our democracy accessible, in every language, for every voter.

Cayden Mak is the Interim Executive Director at 18MillionRising.org.

Follow NBC Asian America on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Tumblr.

*According to the Pew Research Center, a leading organization that conducts public opinion polling and demographic research, Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders (AAPIs) do not have an opinion about the Affordable Care Act or what should happen to undocumented immigrants.

Last summer, former Florida Governor Jeb Bush insulted Asian Americans with his comments on "anchor babies" and birthright citizenship. And yet, according to the Pew poll, Asian Americans don't have views on birthright citizenship.

Of course, that's not what these polls actually say.

Of course AAPIs have views on these issues  but there's no way of knowing what those views are.

We are invisible.

The absence of AAPIs is so pervasive in Pew reports that it issued an analysis earlier this month entitled "The challenges of polling Asian Americans," which acknowledged that: "One question we're often asked is, Why aren't Asian Americans shown as a separate group when differences among whites, blacks and Hispanics are discussed?"

This analysis then outlines the challenges in polling AAPIs, including the "relatively small number" of AAPIs; the difficulty in asking questions in multiple languages in a culturally competent manner; and the diversity of the AAPI community, which represents dozens of ethnicities.

These are legitimate challenges, and it is imperative that we meet them. AAPIs are the fastest growing racial group in the nation and a rising political force. Understanding their needs and concerns  and addressing them  is vital not only for the AAPI community, but indeed for the strength and future of our nation.

This is why Pew's response to the difficulties at hand was so disheartening.

Although Pew noted that it successfully designed a study in which only Asian Americans were interviewed, that was four years ago. Looking ahead, Pew simply states, "The challenges of polling Asian Americans are likely to persist in the foreseeable future." In fact, according to Pew, polling will only become easier in 2030, when Asian Americans will make up 6.9 percent of U.S. adults, or by 2060, when they will make up 9.4 percent of the U.S. adult population.

Telling AAPIs to wait 14 to 44 years until our views can be accurately measured is unacceptable.

And Pew is not the only one to disregard AAPI views.

Last fall, CNN released a CNN/Kaiser Family Foundation poll asking "How big of a problem is racism in our society today?" But it didn't include AAPIs in the breakdown of results.

 So the true challenge is not one of data, language, or statistics. The true challenge is convincing polling organizations that AAPI voices and views matter. That they are worth the investment.

In January, NBC News/Survey Monkey/Esquire reported its online poll about outrage. It reported that 54 percent of whites have grown more outraged over the past year, compared to 43 percent of Latinos and 33 percent of African Americans. AAPIs were not mentioned at all, which, ironically, is cause for outrage.

In February, CNN conducted an entrance poll at the Nevada Democratic Presidential Caucus and reported that 4 percent of caucus participants were AAPI  but then did not have sufficient data to tell whom those AAPIs voted for.

Time and time again, AAPI voices and opinions are erased  dumped into the category "Other" and ignored.

Rather than accept this fate and wait a decade or four to be counted, AAPIs are taking matters into their own hands. Just this week, APIA Vote, Asian Americans Advancing Justice | AAJC, and AAPI Data issued a report on its Spring 2016 Asian American Voter Survey.

Its findings show that Asian Americans support the Affordable Care Act by a margin of 57 percent-29 percent  a fact that Pew was unable to discern. They also demonstrate that 38 percent of AAPIs in Nevada support Secretary Clinton for president, while 24 percent support Senator Sanders. And there's much, much more.

Given the challenges outlined by Pew, how was this possible and what are the lessons that polling organizations should learn?

via APIAVote/AAPI Data/AAAJ-AJC

First, the sample size was large enough and oversampled in two states, where necessary. Although Pew is correct that the population of AAPI adults is "relatively small," according to the Census Bureau, there are 21.8 million AAPIs in the U.S.  surely enough for a robust sample size with sufficient effort.

Second, interviews were conducted in English, Cantonese, Mandarin, Korean, and Vietnamese. A full 45 percent of interviews were conducted in an Asian language, thus demonstrating that limited English proficiency can be overcome  again, with sufficient effort.

And that's really what it comes down to: sufficient effort.

RELATED: Asian-American Voters Tip Toward Dems Headed into 2016 Election: Study

What is left unsaid in the Pew analysis is that these challenges can be overcome if polling organizations are willing to put in the time  and, yes, money  to do so. And what's implied is that Pew is not. (Although credit to Pew for at least acknowledging the issue. Even if it's not satisfying, it's a step in the right direction.)

So the true challenge is not one of data, language, or statistics. The true challenge is convincing polling organizations that AAPI voices and views matter. That they are worth the investment.

The responsibility for meeting this challenge is not only on AAPIs. I challenge the Pew Research Center to live up to its noble mission  to use innovation to increase its accuracy and rigor with respect to AAPIs and thereby generate a more solid and inclusive foundation to enrich the public dialogue and support sound decision-making.

Pew already has taken the lead by outlining the problems in polling AAPIs. Now it's time to solve them.

Christopher Kang is the National Director of the National Council of Asian Pacific Americans (NCAPA) and former Deputy Assistant and Deputy Counsel to President Barack Obama in the Office of the White House Counsel.

EDITOR'S NOTE: Courtney Kennedy, director of survey research at Pew Research Center, told NBC Asian America in response to this op-ed:

"Pew Research Center values the opinions of Asian Americans, one of the fastest growing and most complex communities in the country. Our 2012 study of Asian Americans remains the most rigorous telephone survey of this population. In addition to our survey work, we have also released multiple demographic analyses that have examined Asian Americans' experiences. It is out of respect for the diversity of this group that we report estimates for U.S. Asians only when we feel confident that our data are representative and reliable. We will continue to conduct responsible, in-depth research on this important community."

Requests to CNN for a response were not returned.

Follow NBC Asian America on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Tumblr.

*People celebrate in front of the U.S. Supreme Court after the ruling in favor of same-sex marriage June 26, 2015 in Washington, DC. Mark Wilson / Getty Images

Today, only eight Supreme Court justices returned from the court's summer recess. With the Senate leadership's continued blockade of Merrick Garland's nomination, there's a good chance the ninth justice will be nominated by either President Hillary Clinton or President Donald Trump. And if you're not filled with terror at the thought of a Trump appointee, read on.

Twice now, Trump has released lists of potential justices. Before we get to Trump's Supreme Court hopefuls, let's take a moment to look at his inspiration. He's called Justice Clarence Thomas his favorite member of the court, saying he's "very strong and consistent." He said Justice Antonin Scalia was "one of the best of all time"and had a "legacy of protecting Americans' most cherished freedom." He's even called Chief Justice John Roberts "disgraceful" and a "disappointment" to conservatives.

There's also who he asked for help in curating his selections. For that important job, he turned to the Heritage Foundation -- a conservative think tank committed to "traditional American values." When the Supreme Court delivered marriage equality nationwide in Obergefell v. Hodges, Heritage called it "unadulterated judicial activism." The organization's vile thoughts on persecuting transgender students are stomach-churning.

U.S. Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump speaks at a campaign rally in Pueblo, Colorado, U.S., October 3, 2016. Mike Segar / Reuters

Then there are Trump's potential nominees themselves. His selections include Judge Diane Sykes, who ruled in favor of allowing discrimination against students engaged in "homosexual conduct." He's also named Judge Timothy Tymkovich, who defended Colorado's Amendment 2 -- a law that prohibited basic legal protections for gays, lesbians, and bisexuals, and was struck down by the U.S. Supreme Court in Romer v. Evans. In defending the anti-gay law before the Court, he called non-discrimination laws "special protection." He also compared same-sex attraction to "cockfighting" and "bestiality." Finally, Trump named Judge Edward Mansfield, who in 2012 ruled that an employer had the right to fire a female employee because he was too attracted to her, claiming it was a risk to the employer's marriage.

There are many cases working their way through the federal courts right now that could have serious repercussions for LGBTQ equality. Among these are cases that challenge whether gender identity and sexual orientation can be considered forms of sex discrimination, the application of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act to non-discrimination laws, and the ability of states to strip away municipal LGBT non-discrimination laws. One case that could soon be heard by the Supreme Court is that of Gavin Grimm, a transgender student who filed a lawsuit against Virginia's Gloucester County School District for refusing to allow him to use the restroom consistent with his gender identity. While the Supreme Court is not required to hear any particular case, it is only a matter of time before these issues are considered by the court.

RELATED: Supreme Court Begins New Term Marked by Uncertainty

Trump has pledged to appoint justices who will overturn marriage equality. He's offered a full-throated endorsement of HB2, saying he would "leave it up to the states." He's in favor of so-called "First Amendment Defense Act," which would allow individuals, many businesses and nonprofits to bypass federal protections and blatantly discriminate against LGBTQ families. And beyond seeking advice from organizations such as Heritage, Rick Santorum, Tony Perkins and James Dobson are among his campaign advisors.

And let's not forget, LGBTQ people are also Muslims, women, immigrants, refugees and people living with disabilities. Trump's judicial picks have undermined voting rights, women's rights, worker's rights and more with radical fervor. This is a candidate who attacked Judge Gonzalo Curiel because of his ethnicity, saying he was unqualified to oversee the fraud case against Trump University because "he's Mexican." (Judge Curiel is American. His parents came to the United States from Mexico.) This is also a man who settled a federal lawsuit in 1973 for racial discrimination in housing.

James "Jim" Obergefell, named plaintiff in the Obergefell v. Hodges case, bottom center, speaks to the media after the same-sex marriage ruling outside the U.S. Supreme Court in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Friday, June 26, 2015. Andrew Harrer / Bloomberg via Getty Images

Trump is not unfamiliar with the courts, and the Supreme Court he could create would have dire consequences for LGBTQ equality. The Supreme Court has a sacred responsibility to uphold the rights of all Americans, and throughout our history the court has been instrumental in affirming the Constitutional rights of LGBTQ people. We saw this last year in the Obergefell decision, which was decided by a 5 to 4 vote and brought marriage equality to all 50 states. And we've seen it before.

Over the past 25 years, the LGBTQ community has benefited from the court's groundbreaking affirmation of constitutional protections due to LGBTQ people, including in Romer v. Evans, Lawrence v. Texas, U.S. v. Windsor and Obergefell. Notably, each of these rulings was decided by a razor-thin margin of just one vote. Your one vote for president on November 8 could decide who holds that one vote on the U.S. Supreme Court.

President Barack Obama announces Judge Merrick Garland as his nominee to the U.S. Supreme Court, in the White House Rose Garden in Washington, March 16, 2016. KEVIN LAMARQUE / Reuters

The Senate has an obligation to provide an up or down vote on his nominee, Judge Merrick Garland. And President Obama has left his mark on the nation's highest court, with the appointment of Justices Kagan and Sotomayor. The next president will have just as big an impact on the court -- and for LGBTQ equality.

This LGBT History Month, as we draw closer to Election Day, we must remember the central role the Supreme Court has played in advancing equality. And we must use that knowledge to work harder and dig deeper to elect Hillary Clinton as our next pro-equality champion in the White House. The stakes truly couldn't be higher.

Chad Griffin is the president of the Human Rights Campaign, the nation's largest lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ) civil rights organization.

Follow NBC OUT on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram.

*A few years ago, my band, the Slants, was invited to perform at the Oregon State Penitentiary. To many, sending an all-Asian American dance-rock band into a prison with a significant neo-Nazi population seemed like an invitation for disaster. However, I didn't question the decision until we actually showed up and were handed bright-orange vests to wear over our clothes. Our singer asked if it would be okay to take them off mid-concert, since our suits and vests could get quite warm.

"Sure," the guard said, "but if an incident occurs, the orange vests let the sentry towers know who to avoid shooting." Got it: keep the safety gear on.

We continued through security with significant precautions at every step. There were bars and armed guards everywhere. The clanging of the doors would echo loudly for a while every time one was opened or shut. It was a place designed for containment, not comfort.

Eventually, we stepped onto a large field surrounded by concrete walls  a place called "the big yard." The stage was set up at one end with a thin line of plastic police tape stretched across the frontthe only thing separating us from nearly two thousand convicted criminals. We'd been scheduled to perform the year before, but a large riot had put the place on lockdown, so they'd postponed the concert. This fact didn't do much to settle my nerves. I admit I was making assumptions about the kinds of people who are sent to maximum-security prison: murderers, rapists, and drug dealers.

 We should not be afraid of using the expression of who we are to catalyze change.

While we played, a small crowd assembled in front of the stage, and a larger one walked around the yard, getting the only hour of outdoor time they'd have for the day. As we launched into our cover of "Paint It Black," hundreds of prisoners jumped and cheered.

At the end of the concert, a small group of shirtless white men approached the police tape. Several of them were completely covered in swastikas and white pride tattoos. A large man in front came up, towering over me. He seemed nervous as he handed me a piece of paper and asked for an autograph.

"It's for my daughter," he said. "I want to tell her that I met the band."

He went on: "I know I have these tattoos, and I know what you must be thinking. I've made a lot of mistakes in my life, and they're mistakes that I don't want my little girl to make." He said he wanted to show that he could learn, that he could change his heart and mind even if he couldn't change what was stained into his skin.

That concert was one of the most powerful experiences of my life. I went in with all kinds of assumptions, but those changed when we talked with the prisoners.

I started the Slants nearly a decade ago because I wanted to change people's assumptions. I remember watching Quentin Tarantino's "Kill Bill" on DVD in 2004. I paused the film during the iconic scene of O-Ren Ishii and her gang of Crazy 88s walking into a restaurant  not because of the gore or the soundtrack, but because I realized it was the first American-produced film I'd seen that depicted Asians in a cool and confident manner. The film industry was bad, but the music industry may have been worse: I couldn't think of a single mainstream Asian American music artist.

I wanted to change that with the Slants, the world's first and only all-Asian American dance-rock band. Not only did we create our own brand of '80s-inspired synth pop, but we also got involved with social justice: we toured the country fighting stereotypes about Asian Americans, leading workshops, raising money for charities, and sharing our culture through our music. Letters of support from marginalized communities poured in.

During this time, our attorney recommended that we register the trademark on our band name, something that's commonly done for national acts. However, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, swiftly rejected our application, claiming our name was disparaging to Asians. To support their claim, officials used sources like UrbanDictionary.com, a photo of Miley Cyrus pulling her eyes back in a derogatory gesture, and anonymous posts on internet message boards using the word "slant" as a racial slur.

RELATED: Supreme Court Asked to Hear Two Cases That Could Sack Washington 'Redskins' Name

I named the band the Slants because it represented our perspective  or slant  on life as people of color. It was a deliberate act of claiming an identity as well as a nod to Asian-American activists who had been using the term for decades.

I've been fighting in courts to register our name for the past seven and a half years. I've supplied thousands of pages of evidence, including letters of support from community leaders and Asian-American organizations, independent national surveys, and an etymology report from one of the country's leading linguistics professors. The trademark office was not swayed. They called our effort "laudable, but not influential." With just a few keystrokes, they wiped away the voices of thousands of Asian Americans.

 In my opinion, the role of the government shouldnt include deciding how a group can define itself; that right should belong to the community itself.

We started digging deeper. Rather than focusing on whether or not Asian Americans actually believed our use of the word to be disparaging, we started questioning why the USPTO accused us of using a racial slur to begin with. After all, "slant" can mean any number of things, and the racial connotation was relatively obscure. In fact, over the years, the trademark office has received 800 applications that include variations of the word, but not one was rejected for being racist toward Asians  until an Asian applied.

Trademark officials admitted they considered the word a racial slur in our application because "it is uncontested that applicant is a founding member of a band  composed of members of Asian descent." They then presented evidence, including photographs of Asian people on our website, a "stylized dragon" on an album cover, and an illustration of an Asian woman on an album cover.

Ironically, our band was too Asian to use the word "slant." USPTO thought people would draw the conclusion that our band's name was a reference to our ethnicity. In other words, anyone who wasn't Asian could register a trademark for slant without it being considered a racial slur. It was startling and deeply frustrating to realize that despite trying to use language to help protect my community from stereotypes and racism, I was being denied the right to trademark my band's name because of my race.

The Slants say their name isnt derogatory, but a re-appropriation of a word that it uses as a positive expression of pride. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office doesnt agree. Sarah Giffrow

Through this process, I've come to understand that laws are designed to maintain the status quo. But shifts in language and identity politics require that bureaucracies move beyond simple cultural competency and instead navigate inconvenient and unknown waters.

Some may argue that the trademark office's actions were not racist. But racism doesn't look only like white supremacists burning crosses or wearing white hoods. Racist actions don't have to fit a stereotype of what racism is to be racist. Denying a right based on race is the very essence of racism. It is evidence of a racist system. And like all other systems, this is one that is resistant to change.

In my opinion, the role of the government shouldn't include deciding how a group can define itself; that right should belong to the community itself. It's clear in example after example that the dominant group is not only inconsistent but also sometimes completely off base when it comes to understanding the sentiments of people who have been marginalized for centuries.

We're fighting for more than a band name: we're fighting for the right of self-determination for all minorities. Things like this are the subtle indignities that people of color have to face every day: slights that don't seem big enough to make a fuss over, yet continually remind us that challenges to the norm (read: white, homogenous culture) are not welcome. One of the more amusing instances was the trademark office's denial of the Japanese word for luck  fuku  as a restaurant name, for fear that it might look like an obscenity, while they registered French Connection UK  FCUK  without hesitation.

The USPTO can say it doesn't have enough resources to do research on every application that comes in, or that it has to wait for a massive shift in popular culture over sentiments toward a particular word, phrase, or image. However, this subjective application of the law brings a chilling effect to free expression, especially on the part of individuals who wish to convey irony, neutralize slurs, convey artistic or political ideals, or engage in parody.

And it is subjective indeed: the USPTO has refused "wanker" for use on clothing, but approved it for beer. "Pussy Power" was rejected for entertainment services, but "Pussy Power Revolution" was considered acceptable for clothing. "Madonna" was rejected for wines on the grounds that it would be scandalous, but a different "Madonna" application was then approved. And nearly every racial slur known for Asian Americans has become a registered trademark at some point: jap, Oriental, chink, slope, and, of course, slant.

The fact of the matter is that this law has been unfairly targeting minorities since it was drawn up in the 1940s, and overcoming it would be a small but important victory in the greater battle for equality. For anyone who has been marginalized because of race, sexual orientation, gender, age, religion, or anything else, this is especially meaningful, because the law says that our communities should have the right to set the tone on appropriateness, rather than some disconnected government agency that believes it should protect others from uncomfortable or disagreeable ideas.

Some fear the disruption of this law: after all, if it were to be repealed by my band's trademark case, then there would be almost no legal recourse to have the Redskins' trademark registrations cancelled. Some also worry that my case will serve as a Pandora's box or floodgate for disparaging or offensive trademark registrations. But, the law that could cancel "Redskins" might also be used to cancel the NAACP's registration, since the phrase "colored people" in the organization's name could be considered disparaging by many people. Yes, these things might happen, but we shouldn't let the fear of some offensive trademark registrations trump the rights of marginalized communities.

RELATED: The Slants, Washington Football Team Battle Government in Trademark Fight

And if we believe that the trademark office has been protecting minority groups, then we've all been fooled. As it is being applied in our case, this law is discriminatory. It only maintains the norm, and that norm is white homogenous culture, with no recognition of people who are practitioners of change. We live in a country where equality has been defined by white, heterosexual, cisgender men for hundreds of years, and it's time to bring other community groups to the table. We should not be afraid of using the expression of who we are to catalyze change.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Lawmakers want Redskins to change their name autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

Artists don't begin their careers thinking about how to dismantle laws that they aren't even aware of, and I'm certainly not an exception. When I first started the band, the intention was to take on stereotypes about Asian Americans, inject pride into our ethnic heritages, and increase our community's visibility in the entertainment industry.

But what I've come to see is that assumptions can be efficacious. The trademark office assumed that our name was inherently a racial slur and that the Asian-American community would feel disparaged by it. When our community loudly expressed otherwise, officials assumed that approving our name would set a precedent that would create more paperwork and open the door for other controversial trademark applications. What if, instead, they treated us as applicants of any other race, as people instead of ideologies? What if our government's laws reflected the capacity for people, entire communities, and words and identities to change?

As it is, our legal system on trademark law feels like a prison created to keep disruptive ideas from coming into the mainstream. Officials may believe they are protecting the general public from harm, but they are actually erecting walls that discourage people from mobilizing for social justice by using language to reappropriate ideas. Just because we don't understand or agree with how someone creates social change doesn't mean we should prevent it. When it comes to social justice, we should ask questions and have meaningful conversations instead of making assumptions.

Simon Tam is a musician and the founder of the Slants, an all-Asian American dance-rock band.

Follow NBC Asian America on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Tumblr.

*When I was growing up, my immigrant parents worked in a Chinese take-out restaurant. After working 12-hour physically demanding shifts, they would return home at 2 o'clock in the morning. When we got sick, my sister and I would have to wake up our sleep-deprived mother to drive us the 15 miles to the Chinese community health center, where we would sit for hours until someone was available to see us. My parents' limited income, nonexistent employer sponsored health insurance, and their poor English skills made going to a "normal" doctor's office impossible.

My experience is not unique among the millions of Americans who struggle to cover their basic health needs. However, while the working poor  and particularly immigrant populations  still face significant barriers to accessing adequate healthcare, the reforms provided by the Affordable Care Act (ACA) have greatly increased the number of people who are insured.

The ACA includes a number of highly regarded provisions that have helped to expand coverage: eliminating the bar on coverage due to preexisting conditions, expanding Medicaid eligibility to low-income adults, establishing new insurance Marketplace exchanges, and providing coverage for adult children up to age 26.

National Health Interview Survey

But healthcare advocates fear that President-elect Trump and the Republican Congress will repeal the ACA and dismantle a system currently providing millions of people with affordable healthcare coverage. The nominations of Seema Verma as Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and Tom Price  author of the GOP's proposed replacement for Obamacare as Health and Human Services Secretary seem to confirm those fears.

RELATED: How Trump's First 100 Days in the White House Could Affect Asian Americans

An estimated 20 million people have gained health insurance coverage since the passage of the ACA in 2010. This statistic is particularly significant because large gains were within communities of color, with the uninsured dropping from 22.4 percent to 10.6 percent among Black non-Hispanics, 41.8 percent to 30.5 percent among Hispanics, and 14.3 percent to 7 percent among White non-Hispanics. However, with the imminent change in the healthcare system, millions of individuals will lose their health coverage, and the neediest populations  minority and limited English proficient (LEP) communities  will once again be left behind.

The "model minority myth" often makes invisible the Asian-American community's need for social services, public benefits, and health coverage. Asian Americans are one of the fastest-growing populations in poverty since the Great Recession. For example, in New York City, Asian Americans had the highest poverty rate, 26.4 percent, of all racial groups between 2009-2014. In 2000 and 2006, Asian Americans in New York City also had the highest percentage, 21.3 percent and 22 percent respectively, of "near poor" people (those who are above 100 percent federal poverty rate (FPL) but below 200 percent FPL).

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Take Back: How the Model Minority Myth Hurts Asian-American Elders 4:25 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

These "near poor" individuals earn too much money to receive traditional Medicaid, but could be covered by the Medicaid expansion or purchase affordable healthcare coverage in the marketplace under the ACA. The ACA has served as the safety net coverage for the tens of thousands of Asian Americans who work in small businesses, are self-employed, or are elderly and cannot afford to pay for their own health costs. Some of the ACA's key provisions that provide coverage for preventative care, reproductive health, and Medicaid expansion, have the biggest impact on the low-income people and the historically underrepresented groups, like Asian Americans.

RELATED: Opinion: Asian American, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders Need to Mobilize for Disaggregated Data

Many families, much like mine when I was growing up, do not have access to employer health insurance and are unable to get Medicaid coverage. Even after my parents bought their own restaurant, they were still unable to afford insurance for themselves and their employees. For families who work in or own small businesses, the ACA is the only means by which they can purchase medical insurance coverage.

Celebrate #NHCW15 and check out these stats from 2013 of how the #ACA has impacted the #AAPI community: pic.twitter.com/WCj2MTGKAm  White House AAPI (@WhiteHouseAAPI) August 13, 2015

Until the new administration can design a program that can ensure comprehensive quality coverage for all who need it, the burden is on individuals, community groups, and leaders to come together and advocate for protecting the Affordable Care Act. An ACA repeal and weakening of entitlement programs like Medicaid would have catastrophic outcomes for those who desperately need healthcare coverage.

Theresa Lau is a staff attorney at the National Center for Law and Economic Justice in New York City, and is currently working on an Access to Healthcare project sponsored by the National Asian Pacific American Bar Association Law Foundation Partners and In-House Counsel Community Law Fellowship.

Follow NBC Asian America on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Tumblr.

*Shortly after the 2014 midterms, federal policymakers were facing a funding deadline and a possible government shutdown. Some on the far-right believed President Obama was so weakened by the election results that GOP lawmakers should push him to accept conservative demands.Rush Limbaugh told Fox News Chris Wallace at the time, ]T]he Republicans are running around like a fool saying the American people are not going to like them if they shut down the government is absurd. Barack Obamas approval is in the 30s.Limbaughs assessment wasnt actually true at the time, and Congress ultimately didnt take his advice, but the radio hosts rhetoric was nevertheless memorable. If a presidents approval rating dips below 40%, according to the Limbaugh Standard, that president is by definition weak and vulnerable.This came to mind yesterday when reviewing the new polling report from the Pew Research Center.

To be sure, there are plenty of other polls offering a range of data, but the Pew results are roughly in line with the latest Gallup daily tracking poll, which yesterday put the presidents approval rating at 40%. [: The newest Gallup data, published after this piece originally went live, shows Trump sinking to 38% .]In case this isnt obvious, since the dawn of modern polling, no new president has been this unpopular, this early in his presidency.Why does this matter? A couple of reasons. First, Donald Trump, elected in such a way that raise questions about his presidencys legitimacy, is governing as if he earned a mandate by winning in a landslide. Public-opinion data, however, is a reminder that Americans are, at least at this point, wildly unimpressed with their new Republican leader.In conservative media, there tends to be a knee-jerk reaction to Trump criticism: Sure, the media and elites are balking, but the American mainstream elected him when he acted this way in 2016, Such a response to recent events rings hollow when the presidents approval rating falls to 39%.Second, there is such a thing as political capital, and the more Trumps support wanes, the less capital he has. If youre a Republican from a competitive district or state, and youre watching your partys president alienate the American mainstream, its inevitable that youll feel nervous about blindly following the GOPs partisan agenda.At his ridiculous press conference yesterday, Trump noted recent protests from health care proponents, targeting congressional Republicans. The president said, Obamacare is a disaster, folks. Its a disaster. You can say, Oh, Obamacare. I mean, they fill up our alleys with people that you wonder how they get there, but theyre not the Republican people that our representatives are representing.In our system of government, however, the Republican people that our representatives are representing arent the only people in the United States. The latest polling should be a reminder that everyone else matters too.

*



Reflecting on the wave of progressive activism across the country, the North Carolinian



No it doesnt, MSNBCs Greta Van Susteren



The absurdities of the paid protestor argument notwithstanding, Republicans cant seem to let go of the idea. Last week, Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), who represents one of the reddest districts in the country, faced Former North Carolina Gov. Pat McCrory (R), the only incumbent governor in either party to lose in 2016, is apparently trying his hand at becoming a Republican pundit. McCrory appeared on Meet the Press, and even tried to legitimize one of his partys most ridiculous talking points.Reflecting on the wave of progressive activism across the country, the North Carolinian declared , It takes money to coordinate these protests.No it doesnt, MSNBCs Greta Van Susteren said , without missing a beat. It takes the internet.The absurdities of the paid protestor argument notwithstanding, Republicans cant seem to let go of the idea. Last week, Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), who represents one of the reddest districts in the country, faced a fierce audience , which wasnt at all pleased with recent developments in D.C. As KSL, the NBC affiliate in Salt Lake City, reported , the Utah Republican has decided to respond to the public pushback by questioning his audiences integrity.

Rep. Jason Chaffetz said the raucous reception he received at Thursday evenings town hall meeting was bullying and an attempt at intimidation from a crowd opposed to President Donald Trumps election. Chaffetz said the crowd that filled the auditorium at Brighton High School in Cottonwood Heights and spilled over into a protest outside included people brought in from other states to disrupt the meeting.



Absolutely. I know there were, he said, suggesting it was more of a paid attempt to bully and intimidate than a reflection of the feelings of his 3rd District constituents.





But I also think this ties into a larger problem related to political responses to public opinion.



Last week, for example, Donald Trump said every poll that offers results he doesnt like



Sure, this is paranoid. Yes, its unsubstantiated nonsense. But its also an unhealthy approach towards understanding public engagement. An inherent heads I win, tails you lose dynamic is starting to kick in: too many Republicans are working from the assumption that receptive audiences are real, while hostile audiences  like Trumps unflattering polls  are fake.



When a GOP member of Congress receives a warm reception, he assumes, The people must be with me. When he confronts angry voters, he assumes, These people must be part of a corrupt scheme  because the people are with me.



Voxs Dylan Matthews a So far, Chaffetz has offered no proof to substantiate his suspicions, and any time a member of Congress responds to public pressure by insulting his or her own constituents, theres an inherent risk, even in a safe, lopsided district. (If he cant prove allegations like these, Chaffetz really ought to apologize for questioning these voters integrity like this.)But I also think this ties into a larger problem related to political responses to public opinion.Last week, for example, Donald Trump said every poll that offers results he doesnt like must be dismissed as fake news, practically by definition. Similarly, the White House is convinced that every participant in every anti-Trump protest must be getting paid by one of his enemies.Sure, this is paranoid. Yes, its unsubstantiated nonsense. But its also an unhealthy approach towards understanding public engagement. An inherent heads I win, tails you lose dynamic is starting to kick in: too many Republicans are working from the assumption that receptive audiences are real, while hostile audiences  like Trumps unflattering polls  are fake.When a GOP member of Congress receives a warm reception, he assumes, The people must be with me. When he confronts angry voters, he assumes, These people must be part of a corrupt scheme  because the people are with me.Voxs Dylan Matthews a good piece on this a couple of weeks ago, focused largely on polling:

[O]ne of the most important checks on the president, on any politician, is public opinion. While it may not always feel true, political scientists broadly agree that presidents have historically been quite responsive to public opinion. Public opinion is a valuable constraint on the presidents freedom of action. []



[I]f Trump does dismiss these numbers, that means hes ignoring one of the only things that can hold him back. Instead of taking polls as indicators  imperfect indicators, but still  that something is going wrong and he might want to pivot for his own good, he might not consider them at all.

All of this applies equally well to Chaffetz and his Capitol Hill colleagues. Public backlashes are supposed to make an impression on elected officials whose jobs are dependent on public support. Note, for example, what happened when congressional Republicans tried to start the new year by gutting their own ethics laws: voters howled, and members quickly reversed course, which is how the system is generally supposed to work.



Once office-holders start assuming that every critic is part of a nefarious and insincere partisan game, the checks start to break down, and the pivots towards mainstream policymaking become far less likely. Thats not a healthy approach to democratic politics.

*Donald Trump entered the White House as the least popular American president since the dawn of modern polling, and after a couple of weeks on the job, his standing has not improved. The latest survey results from Gallup CNN , and CBS News point to a president with weak national support, pushing ideas that the American mainstream generally opposes.Against this backdrop, Trump has a few options. The president could say, for example, that hes doing what he thinks is right, without regard for popularity. He could also say his agenda may lack support now, but Americans will grow to appreciate his ideas in time.But this morning, Trump, whos clearly aware of the polling, went in a very different direction

Hmm. Positive polls, from the White Houses perspective, are to be trusted, but any negative poll must necessarily be seen as wrong and fake  because Trump says so. He knows what people want, so evidence to the contrary, by definition, must be wrong.One of the most alarming aspects of the Trump presidency is how often he applies this kind of thinking to aspects of modern American life. Dont trust news organizations . Dont trust the courts . Dont trust pollsters . Dont trust U.S. intelligence agencies . Dont trust unemployment numbers . Dont even trust election results Too often, Donald J. Trump suggests theres a sole authority for truth, and the public is supposed to think its him.Making matters quite a bit worse, some Republicans are inclined to go along with this style of authoritarian thinking. Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.), the chairman of the House Science Committee, recently advised Americans to get your news directly from the president. In fact, it might be the only way to get the unvarnished truth.This is a twisted perspective, not just because the president routinely has no use for reality, but also because, in a democratic society, the idea that truth-seeking citizens must turn exclusively to the national leader is so antithetical to American norms, its genuinely offensive.It is, however, eerily consistent with a Republican president who told voters during the campaign, Politicians have used you and stolen your votes. They have given you nothing. I will give you everything Im the only one. In his GOP convention speech, Trump added, Nobody knows the system better than me, which is why I alone can fix it. I am your voice.And that voice is now telling us not to believe public-opinion polls he doesnt like. Its not a healthy approach to politics in a democracy.

*None of this made sense  no one has taken law enforcement away from the United States, whatever thats supposed to mean  and the idea that a sitting president would trash a federal judge directly like this has few parallels in the American tradition.In 2010, President Obama used his State of the Union address to denounce the Supreme Courts Citizens United ruling, and much of the Beltway establishment went berserk , characterizing the Democrats remarks as an assault on the federal judiciary.Seven years later, we have a Republican throwing a tantrum about a so-called judge  who happens to be a Bush/Cheney appointee who was confirmed unanimously by the Senate  which followed racist criticisms of a different federal judge during his campaign.But Trump wasnt done tweeting. The president added , What is our country coming to when a judge can halt a Homeland Security travel ban and anyone, even with bad intentions, can come into U.S.? None of this was true  Trump remains woefully uninformed about the existing vetting process  but, alas, he was just getting started.The judge opens up our country to potential terrorists and others that do not have our best interests at heart, Trump added . Bad people are very happy! It was hard not to get the impression that if terrorists were to launch a successful attack, the president was laying the rhetorical groundwork to blame the federal judiciary  an idea he made explicit in yet another tweet yesterday: Just cannot believe a judge would put our country in such peril. If something happens blame him and court system. People pouring in. Bad!Note that the president is already trying to shield himself from responsibility, blaming the courts for hypothetical violence, all while lying about the process.Because the ban was lifted by a judge, many very bad and dangerous people may be pouring into our country, Trump went on to say , ignoring the facts about how visitors and refugees reach American soil. A terrible decision.Its worth remembering that Trumps hand-picked acting Attorney General warned him about his executive orders dubious legality, and for her trouble, the president fired her.Finally, he concluded , Why arent the lawyers looking at and using the Federal Court decision in Boston, which is at conflict with ridiculous lift ban decision? In context, the lawyers refer to the attorneys working at Trumps own Justice Department. If he finds the judicial process confusing  this really is the sort of thing a president should have a rudimentary understanding of  he has an army of lawyers who could explain the basics to him whenever he asks.Not surprisingly, the fact that Trump has publicly trashed two federal courts, and the judicial system he apparently finds baffling, is likely to reverberate for a while.The Presidents attack on Judge James Robart, a Bush appointee who passed with 99 votes, shows a disdain for an independent judiciary that doesnt always bend to his wishes and a continued lack of respect for the Constitution, making it more important that the Supreme Court serve as an independent check on the administration, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) said in a statement over the weekend.The Democratic senator added, With each action testing the Constitution, and each personal attack on a judge, President Trump raises the bar even higher for Judge Gorsuchs nomination to serve on the Supreme Court. His ability to be an independent check will be front and center throughout the confirmation process.

*



Trumps baffling directive has drawn fire from both parties, former officials from the Obama and Bush administrations, and pretty much anyone who cares about how the executive branch approaches matters of national security. Those concerns only intensified this week when Foreign Policy



The magazine



But the problem extends beyond an amateur president giving too much authority to a radical provocateur on matters of national security, and includes the alarming beliefs embraced by that provocateur. Did you catch this USA Today Of all the bizarre moves Donald Trump has made since becoming president, one of the most widely criticized decisions was, of all things, a personnel decision. The White House decided to shake up the National Security Council, giving right-wing strategist Stephen Bannon a seat and a vote, while demoting the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the director of national intelligence.Trumps baffling directive has drawn fire from both parties, former officials from the Obama and Bush administrations, and pretty much anyone who cares about how the executive branch approaches matters of national security. Those concerns only intensified this week when Foreign Policy reported that Bannon, the former editor of a right-wing website, has begun calling the shots at the NSC, doing so with little to no input from the National Security Council staff.The magazine quoted an intelligence official who described the NSCs work environment as one in which theres little appetite for dissenting opinions and shockingly no paper trail of whats being discussed and agreed upon at meetings.But the problem extends beyond an amateur president giving too much authority to a radical provocateur on matters of national security, and includes the alarming beliefs embraced by that provocateur. Did you catch this USA Today piece yesterday?

Steve Bannon, who has ascended in just months from relative obscurity to become one of President Trumps most influential advisors, has said that Islam is the most radical religion in the world and the U.S. is engaged in a civilizational struggle potentially leading to a major shooting war in the Middle East again. []



In dozens of hours of audio recordings reviewed by USA TODAY of his Breitbart News Daily radio show in 2015 and 2016, Bannon told his listeners that the United States and the Western world are engaged in a global existential war, and he entertained claims that a fifth column of Islamist sympathizers had infiltrated the U.S. government and news media.

*



Under the circumstances, its hard to argue with Larsens conclusion. The New York Times Rep. Rick Larsen (D-Wash.), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, reviewed Donald Trumps new directive on the White Houses National Security Council, and felt compelled to issue a candid assessment. This is a Holy Crap moment, the congressman said Under the circumstances, its hard to argue with Larsens conclusion. The New York Times reported

[T]he defining moment for [Chief White House Strategist Stephen] Bannon came Saturday night in the form of an executive order giving the rumpled right-wing agitator a full seat on the principals committee of the National Security Council  while downgrading the roles of the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the director of national intelligence, who will now attend only when the council is considering issues in their direct areas of responsibilities.



It is a startling elevation of a political adviser, to a status alongside the secretaries of state and defense, and over the presidents top military and intelligence advisers.





But this takes the problems to a whole new level. Susan Rice, who served as one of President Obamas National Security Advisors, described Trumps move as 



Putting the former head of a right-wing website on the White Houses National Security Council is bonkers. Putting him on the National Security Council while removing the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the director of national intelligence is so plainly crazy that no one has been able to present a coherent defense.



Even George W. Bush, for all of his difficulties on matters of national security,



The Times Sure, Trumps national security team was already something of a mess. National Security Advisor Michael Flynn clearly has no business holding his current post; his deputy is even less qualified ; and the person the president tapped to oversee NSC communications was forced to resign But this takes the problems to a whole new level. Susan Rice, who served as one of President Obamas National Security Advisors, described Trumps move as  stone cold crazy , which also seems more than fair.Putting the former head of a right-wing website on the White Houses National Security Council is bonkers. Putting him on the National Security Council while removing the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the director of national intelligence is so plainly crazy that no one has been able to present a coherent defense.Even George W. Bush, for all of his difficulties on matters of national security, made it abundantly clear that Karl Rove was to have nothing to do with the National Security Council  because to do otherwise would be inherently dangerous.The Times piece added that the news is drawing bipartisan criticism:

The last place you want to put somebody who worries about politics is in a room where theyre talking about national security, said Leon E. Panetta, a former White House chief of staff, defense secretary and C.I.A. director in two Democratic administrations.



Ive never seen that happen, and it shouldnt happen. Its not like he has broad experience in foreign policy and national security issues. He doesnt. His primary role is to control or guide the presidents conscience based on his campaign promises. Thats not what the National Security Council is supposed to be about.



That opinion was shared by President George W. Bushs last chief of staff, Josh Bolten, who barred Karl Rove, Mr. Bushs political adviser, from N.S.C. meetings. A presidents decisions made with those advisers, he told a conference audience in September, involve life and death for the people in uniform and should not be tainted by any political decisions.

*



Obama is exiting the stage



For his part, Trump seems to believe theres a giant media/polling conspiracy underway  he insisted this week that the polls are  As President Obama passes the torch to President-elect Trump, Americans are witnessing all sorts of firsts, including the largest-ever gap in popularity from one leader to his successor.Obama is exiting the stage on a high note , with an approval rating at 60% or higher in several new surveys. Donald Trump, meanwhile, is the least popular new president since the dawn of modern polling, with the latest CBS News poll giving an approval rating of just 37% and a favorability rating of just 32%. A Fox News poll released last night showed similar results.For his part, Trump seems to believe theres a giant media/polling conspiracy underway  he insisted this week that the polls are  rigged   and his team is under the impression that the data doesnt matter

Mr. Trumps advisers said privately that his unexpected rise to power showed that such traditional barometers did not matter as much anymore. If polls were to be believed, he would not have been president, they said.





For that matter, polling on approval and favorability ratings is vastly easier than putting together polling screens on whos likely to cast a ballot. When every independent poll shows a politician is unpopular, it means he really is unpopular. Most members of Congress, wholl be asked to endorse Trumps widely disliked agenda, will be on the ballot next year, and its safe to assume theyll be far less cavalier about Americans attitudes.



But just as notable is the fact that Trump Worlds attitudes towards polls may carry alarming consequences.



Voxs Dylan Matthews had Its not quite that simple. Polls were right when they showed Trump dominating in the Republican presidential primaries, and they were right again when they showed Trump trailing Hillary Clinton in the popular vote by millions.For that matter, polling on approval and favorability ratings is vastly easier than putting together polling screens on whos likely to cast a ballot. When every independent poll shows a politician is unpopular, it means he really is unpopular. Most members of Congress, wholl be asked to endorse Trumps widely disliked agenda, will be on the ballot next year, and its safe to assume theyll be far less cavalier about Americans attitudes.But just as notable is the fact that Trump Worlds attitudes towards polls may carry alarming consequences.Voxs Dylan Matthews had a good piece on this the other day:

[O]ne of the most important checks on the president, on any politician, is public opinion. While it may not always feel true, political scientists broadly agree that presidents have historically been quite responsive to public opinion. Public opinion is a valuable constraint on the presidents freedom of action. []



[I]f Trump does dismiss these numbers, that means hes ignoring one of the only things that can hold him back. Instead of taking polls as indicators  imperfect indicators, but still  that something is going wrong and he might want to pivot for his own good, he might not consider them at all.

Its a recipe for trouble: Americans will soon be led by a president whos convinced he enjoys broad public support, though the backing exists largely in his imagination. A leader whos deluded about his own popularity will feel unrestrained while pursuing goals much, and perhaps most, of the country oppose.



Buckle up.







*



Theres a school of thought that suggests this isnt entirely Trumps fault. Maybe the public is just in a sour mood. Perhaps Americans, after a long and ugly campaign, are inclined to hold every political figure in low regard, and Trump is simply caught up in a wave of broad public revulsion.



Of course, if that were true, President Obama wouldnt be leaving office Donald Trump is entering the White House with the weakest public support of any new president since the dawn of modern polling. The Republican may prefer to see a giant media conspiracy against him  Trump yesterday dismissed survey results as  rigged   but if so, the scheme incorporates a plethora of national news organizations and polling outfits, each of which show the president-elect with surprisingly awful backing Theres a school of thought that suggests this isnt entirely Trumps fault. Maybe the public is just in a sour mood. Perhaps Americans, after a long and ugly campaign, are inclined to hold every political figure in low regard, and Trump is simply caught up in a wave of broad public revulsion.Of course, if that were true, President Obama wouldnt be leaving office with rising popularity

While Trump is entering office with the worst numbers in the history of the NBC/WSJ poll, outgoing President Barack Obama is exiting with some of his highest numbers. Fifty-six percent of Americans approve of Obamas job, which is his highest rating since the first few months of his presidency.



Moreover, 53 percent of Americans believe the country is better off than it was eight years ago, while 42 percent think its worse off. A similar 54 percent say Obama mostly brought the right kind of change.



And a combined 55 percent believe Obama - compared with the past several U.S. presidents - will either go down as one of the very best or be better than most.





A new Washington Post/ABC News



Similarly, a new CNN



The 2016 election may not have turned out the way the president wanted, but theres no doubt that Obama is exiting the stage on a very high note.



And this extends well beyond public opinion: the New York Times David Leonhardt had a Democratic pollster Fred Yang put it this way: If Donald Trump enters office on a down note, the current occupant is enjoying a second honeymoon of sorts.A new Washington Post/ABC News poll , meanwhile, puts Obamas final approval rating at 60%  one of only four presidents since World War II to leave the White House with so much public support.Similarly, a new CNN poll also shows Obama with a 60% approval rating. The same survey found 65% of Americans consider Obamas presidency as a success.The 2016 election may not have turned out the way the president wanted, but theres no doubt that Obama is exiting the stage on a very high note.And this extends well beyond public opinion: the New York Times David Leonhardt had a compelling piece yesterday describing Obama as the most successful Democratic president since FDR.

In truth, Obama succeeded by taking a rigorous, evidence-based approach to government. He began trying to broker bipartisan deals and, when that failed, governed as a tough Democrat. Obama leaves office as the most successful Democrat since Franklin Roosevelt. His effect on the trajectory of America, to use his benchmark, was certainly smaller than Roosevelts, but is in the same league as Reagans.

Given that presidents standing often grows after leaving office, dont be surprised if Obamas stature continues to reach new heights after he departs the White House  especially once Americans have an opportunity to compare him to his successor.







*Over and over again, Democratic senators pressed the Education nominee on questions she must have known were coming, but DeVos was nevertheless woefully unprepared for each of them.In one especially cringe-worthy exchange, Sen. Maggie Hassan (D-N.H.) asked about the Individuals with Disabilities Act, which DeVos didnt realize is an existing federal law. I may have confused it, the nominee conceded.Soon after, Sen. Al Franken (D-Minn.) asked about her opinions on the difference between evaluating education proficiency and growth, one of the more common areas of debate in the field. DeVos rambled for a while, before making clear she had no idea what Franken was talking about.Asked by Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) about guns in schools, DeVos suggested grizzly bears may try to attack children in states in Wyoming, so shed prefer to leave the matter up to states.The Washington Post put together a video of head-scratching moments from DeVos hearing, and it wasnt a short clip.There is a certain irony to the developments: Trumps choice to lead the Department of Education failed to do her homework, and as a consequence, she flunked her big test.The truth is, DeVos nomination is tough to defend on the merits, even looking past yesterdays hearing. As we discussed when she was first tapped for the position, the Republican activist has spent years crusading against public education and pushing for privatization though voucher schemes.The New York Times reported in November, It is hard to find anyone more passionate about the idea of steering public dollars away from traditional public schools than Betsy DeVos. Her only relevant experience in shaping education policy was DeVos role as one of the architects of Detroits charter-school experiment  which produced disastrous results But despite this background, DeVos couldve anticipated Democratic questions and prepared reassuring-sounding answers. Instead, the Republican reinforced the worst fears about her nomination.

*



At least, he used to. This same man explained that he faced a life-threatening form of cancer, which was treated because he had coverage through the Affordable Care Act. I want to thank President Obama from the bottom of my heart, the man



It was a timely reminder that Paul Ryans repeal crusade, which has already run into some trouble in Washington, probably wont be as easy as the far-right House Speaker hoped.



The man whose life was saved by the ACA specifically challenged Ryan on the Republican replacement. The Speaker said what he was expected to say  he intends to replace the law with something better  but Ryan went on to point to a specific concern he has with the status quo. From the CNN Early on in House Speaker Paul Ryans (R-Wis.) town-hall event last night, the congressman fielded a question from a voter who seemed like an ally. The man, who owns a small business in a red state, explained that he had worked for the Reagan and Bush campaigns, and he opposed the Affordable Care Act.At least, he used to. This same man explained that he faced a life-threatening form of cancer, which was treated because he had coverage through the Affordable Care Act. I want to thank President Obama from the bottom of my heart, the man said , because I would be dead if it werent for him.It was a timely reminder that Paul Ryans repeal crusade, which has already run into some trouble in Washington, probably wont be as easy as the far-right House Speaker hoped.The man whose life was saved by the ACA specifically challenged Ryan on the Republican replacement. The Speaker said what he was expected to say  he intends to replace the law with something better  but Ryan went on to point to a specific concern he has with the status quo. From the CNN transcript

The problem with Obamacare  the actuary is called a death spiral. Its a really kind of ugly, gruesome term, but a death spiral is a mathematical term. They say when the insurance gets so expensive, healthy people wont buy it because they  its just a trade-off. The penalty to not buy is a lot cheaper than buying the insurance, so healthy people wont buy it; therefore, they wont go and participate in the insurance pool to cover the losses that sicker people, who have to have insurance, buy it.



Thats whats happening to Obamacare now.





And the truth is, if the ACA were in death spiral, wed see declining enrollment numbers, with consumers withdrawing from the system because they cant afford the premiums and would rather pay the penalty than buy insurance they cant afford.



Enrollment totals, however, are going up, not down.



Despite higher premiums in parts of the country, and against a political backdrop in which Republicans are desperate to destroy the existing system, Americans are getting health care coverage through the ACA in growing numbers: we learned just this week that 11.5 million consumers bought marketplace plans in 2016, an increase of nearly 300,000 over the comparable period last year.



If Ryan and his GOP allies were counting on an anti-Obamacare campaign to discourage the public from buying coverage, its not working. A New York Times No, its not. This isnt a matter of opinion; its a matter of reality. If the Speaker of the House is going to hold forums like these, and speak to national audiences about the state of the health care system, its important that he tell the public the truth.And the truth is, if the ACA were in death spiral, wed see declining enrollment numbers, with consumers withdrawing from the system because they cant afford the premiums and would rather pay the penalty than buy insurance they cant afford.Enrollment totals, however, are going up, not down.Despite higher premiums in parts of the country, and against a political backdrop in which Republicans are desperate to destroy the existing system, Americans are getting health care coverage through the ACA in growing numbers: we learned just this week that 11.5 million consumers bought marketplace plans in 2016, an increase of nearly 300,000 over the comparable period last year.If Ryan and his GOP allies were counting on an anti-Obamacare campaign to discourage the public from buying coverage, its not working. A New York Times report added this week:

The proportion of young adults signing up has held steady, a sign that the mix of people buying insurance this year is unlikely to be substantially sicker and more expensive than the people enrolled in plans last year.



Todays data show that this market is not merely stable, it is actually on track for growth, Aviva Aron-Dine, a senior counselor to Sylvia Mathews Burwell, the secretary of Health and Human Services, said in a conference call with reporters. Today we can officially proclaim these death spiral claims dead.

*



With just days remaining ahead of Election Day, and with early voting already underway, the FBI director went public with the latter, not the former. When Comey



But given the larger context, none of this is funny. In fact, Justice Department Inspector General Michael Horowitz announced today he is moving forward Theres no shortage of observers whove argued, persuasively, that FBI Director James Comey made reckless decisions at critical moments, which in turn helped put Donald Trump in the White House. Indeed, as recent developments have made clear , Comey had evidence of illegal Russian intervention in support of Trump and questions about possible Hillary Clinton emails on Anthony Weiners laptop.With just days remaining ahead of Election Day, and with early voting already underway, the FBI director went public with the latter, not the former. When Comey testified on Capitol Hill this week that he would never comment on investigations publicly, it drew sardonic laughter.But given the larger context, none of this is funny. In fact, Justice Department Inspector General Michael Horowitz announced today he is moving forward with an investigation how the FBI and Justice Department handled certain aspects of the Hillary Clinton email investigation.

[Horowitzs probe] will include a review of FBI Director James Comeys news conference in July and his two letters to lawmakers in late October and early November.



In response to requests from numerous Chairmen and Ranking Members of Congressional oversight committees, various organizations, and members of the public, the Office of the Inspector General will initiate a review of allegations regarding certain actions by the Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation in advance of the 2016 election, the Justice Department said.





For example, in July, Comey  a Republican appointed to his post by President Obama  announced that the bureau would not pursue charges against Clinton. As FBI director, Comeys job in that situation was to simply announce the end of the investigation and move on, but Comey went further, delivering a prepared speech



Why did he take it upon himself to share these opinions? No one really knows  plenty of prosecutors were stunned by Comeys move at the time  which is probably why the Justice Departments IG will explore this further.



Whats more, this isnt just about the FBI director. As we learned in November, a group of FBI investigators



According to the NBC News The scope of the review matters. Comeys late-October letter had a direct role in dictating the outcome of the presidential campaign, but the question surrounding the FBIs election-year activities go further than that one misguided-but-consequential letter.For example, in July, Comey  a Republican appointed to his post by President Obama  announced that the bureau would not pursue charges against Clinton. As FBI director, Comeys job in that situation was to simply announce the end of the investigation and move on, but Comey went further, delivering a prepared speech in which he condemned Clintons extremely careless email server protocols.Why did he take it upon himself to share these opinions? No one really knows  plenty of prosecutors were stunned by Comeys move at the time  which is probably why the Justice Departments IG will explore this further.Whats more, this isnt just about the FBI director. As we learned in November, a group of FBI investigators conducted multiple interviews with Peter Schweizer, a former speechwriting consultant for President George W. Bush, who authored an anti-Clinton screed called Clinton Cash. Senior Justice Department  didnt think much  of the allegations, but some in the FBI invested election-year energies chasing this anyway.According to the NBC News report , Horowitz will also examine:

* Allegations that the FBI Deputy Director should have been recused from participating in certain investigative matters;



* Allegations that the Departments Assistant Attorney General for Legislative Affairs improperly disclosed non-public information to the Clinton campaign and/or should have been recused from participating in certain matters;



* Allegations that Department and FBI employees improperly disclosed non-public information; and



* Allegations that decisions regarding the timing of the FBIs release of certain Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) documents on October 30 and November 1, 2016, and the use of a Twitter account to publicize same, were influenced by improper considerations.

Watch this space.







*By all accounts David Kriehn, of Noblesville, Ind., was a good person. He was a gentle and caring man.

A good person, Harry Straut told television station WTHR. They guy you liked to hang out with as well as work with.

Kriehn was a former missionary  who managed Famous Daves, a popular barbecue joint near Indianapolis.

Dave was an inspirational leader, Straut told the television station.

He was the kind of leader who put others ahead of himself  a great American.

On Feb. 12, Kriehn was driving home from work in the wee hours of the morning when he was hit from behind on Interstate 465. The force of the impact flipped over his car  he was ejected. Kriehn  a father and grandfather  died at a nearby hospital.

Franklin Graham says patriots need to read Todds new book. Click here to get your copy of The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again.

Police identified the motorist who struck Kriehn as Elizabeth Vargas Hernandez  a Mexican national. They say she did not have a drivers license. They also say she was drunk.

And the Marion County Sheriffs Office tells me Immigration Customs Enforcement has placed a hold on Hernandez.

She is no stranger to law enforcement. In 2015, she was accused of driving without a license  but she was not arrested. Thats according to the reporting of IndyChannel.com.

And WTHR reports a state police investigation uncovered evidence that the woman entered the country illegally and has never held a drivers license.

How many more American citizens must die before our elected leaders take action?

Liberals want to protect people like the woman who killed Kriehn. They want to provide sanctuary to those who live among us illegally  those who would do us harm.

The cold hard reality is that David Kriehn, a father and grandfather, would still be alive today if only somebody had bothered to secure our borders.

Build that wall, Mr. President. Build it for people like David Kriehn.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*I received a rather disturbing report of yet another case of Trump Derangement Syndrome -- this time from a high school in Camarillo, California.

Franklin Graham says Todd's new book should be read by every patriot in America. Click here to get your copy!

Jane Germaine said her son's English teacher at Campana High School told the class that she lost a $100 bet because President Trump had not been shot on Inauguration Day.

Mrs. Germaine tells me the teacher's remarks were troubling.

"A public school teacher using classroom time to share with students how she lost a bet because the president was not shot on Inauguration Day is beyond reprehensible to me and I do not see how the school district does not find this troubling as well," she told me.

And it turned out not to be the first time she's heard about teachers at the high school making politically-charged statements in the classroom.

"Teachers telling students that Trump hates women, Fox News is 'fake' news, it's raining so much in Southern California these days because Trump is president, a teacher telling students she is estranged from certain family members because they are conservative -- I could go on and on," she said.

"How is a 15 or 16-year-old supposed to process what this means, especially if their family is conservative, approves of Trump and watches Fox News," she wondered.

The assassination crack was the last straw. So Mrs. Germaine filed a complaint with the school district.

"My husband and I feel that our concerns have been completely dismissed by the school and the school district and they are just hoping that we forget about this and go away," she said.

And that's why she contacted me.

I, too, reached out to the superintendent -- but so far -- my messages have gone unanswered.

Maybe the teacher was just cracking a joke? Maybe it was part of a lesson plan? Or maybe the teacher was just blowing off some steam? Who knows?

But I suspect had a student made similar remarks, he would've been hauled off to jail.

"If my son were to say such comments, even remotely similar in nature, he most likely would have been escorted out of class, I would have received a phone call, law enforcement notified and my son would have been suspended or expelled," she said.

Mrs. Germaine is right to be upset. Her son is being forced to sit in a classroom and be indoctrinated by anti-Trump school teachers.

"We do our best to teach our boys to just ignore such comments but it is deeply frustrating for them, and us as well, because they have no choice but to sit there and listen to it," she said.

I want to applaud Mrs. Germaine for her courage to stand up and speak out.

In my new book, The Deplorables' Guide to Making America Great Again, I issue a call to action for Americans to engage their local public school system.

Our public schools have been commandeered by far-left radicals -- and they are using American classrooms to radically change the culture. We must stand up to their dangerous agenda.

It's the only cure for Trump Derangement Syndrome.

Be sure to click here to join Todd's newsletter -- a must-read for conservatives!

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*Joy Villa made one heckuva statement at the Grammys Sunday night.

Miss Villa, a self-described singer-songwriter and vegan-bodybuilder, stormed the red carpet wearing a Make America Great Again dress.

Click here to read the most deplorable book in America! Its a best-seller and its driving liberals nuts!

The jaw-dropping, star-spangled ensemble also included a train emblazoned with President Trumps name.

Sometimes you just gotta be free to express yourself, she wrote on Twitter.

It was a truly remarkable moment of diversity and inclusion in Hollywood  one that will surely land the relatively unknown performer on the Worst Dressed List.

My Fox News colleague and resident millennial Caleb Parke gave Miss Villas ensemble a thumbs-up.

I dont care what your politics are, this girl is bold  and might I add, beautiful, he said.

She did look stunning  and patriotic.

The dress was designed by Andre Soriano, a Filipino immigrant who came to our shores in search of the American dream.

Ive never been in the political area, Soriano told The Hollywood Reporter. However, its just so crazy that people are getting beat up because they voted for Trump.

Soriano was inspired to create his masterpiece after watching the Nasty Woman protest in Washington, D.C.

I am an American, he told THR. I moved here from the Philippines and I highly believed in the trueness of what this country can bring. Its about bringing people together, thats the message.

Its worth repeating that Soriano came to America legally.

Unfortunately, the red, white and blue dress is not available at Nordstrom, Sears or TJ Maxx. Sorry, fashionistas.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*The principal of a fancy New York City private school says the election of President Trump is worse than the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks.

Steve Nelson, principal of the Calhoun School, fired off a hate-filled email to parents blasting the president. He also said Trump's election would be more devastating than Vietnam, Watergate and the assassination of the Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr.

Click here to get your copy of Todds new book  The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again! Liberals say it is truly deplorable!

I walked the complex inner-city streets of Cleveland during the racial unrest of the 60s, he wrote in an email obtained by the New York Post. I was in rural Georgia when Martin Luther King Junior was assassinated in Tennessee. I watched every moment of the Watergate hearings that led to the resignation of Richard M. Nixon. I watched soot-covered New Yorkers grimly trudging north on West End Avenue on September 11, 2001. I am more troubled now.

The principal would have us believe that he was more disturbed by Trumps election than the sight of New Yorkers falling from the sky or the Twin Towers collapsing onto the streets of lower Manhattan.

Just to put this in perspective, the principal believes President Trump is worse than the Muslim hijackers who flew jetliners into buildings and slaughtered thousands of Americans.

The principal would have us believe that he was more disturbed by Trumps election than the sight of New Yorkers falling from the sky or the Twin Towers collapsing onto the streets of lower Manhattan.

I do not know Principal Nelson, but he sounds like a deeply disturbed educator who should not be around impressionable school children.

Im rather surprised the principal did not blame Trump for sinking the Titanic or causing the Black Plague.

As repulsive as his comments might have been, I believe the principals beliefs are rather mainstream among liberals.

During the 2016 presidential campaign Hillary Clinton labeled many of President Trumps supporters as a basket of irredeemable deplorables.

I borrowed that phrase for the title of my new book, The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again.

In the liberal mindset, conservatives who support traditional marriage and securing the border and gun rights are not just deplorable. They believe we are irredeemable deplorables. In other words, our beliefs make us beyond redemption.

Thats why so many parents and teachers defended Principal Nelsons hate speech.

Ive been at the school for 19 years and there was not a message that got a more positive response than this one, he told the Post. If this upset a few people I understand. But you cant make everyone happy all the time.

What a steaming pile of compost.

The Calhoun Schools only redeeming quality is that taxpayers are not forced to pay for this dumpster fire of a school.

So lets set the record straight.

President Trump has never waged jihad against Americans -- nor has he assassinated a Civil Rights leader or napalmed a jungle in Vietnam.

And to compare those horrific atrocities with the president's desire to make our nation great again is not just offensive -- it's downright evil.



Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*American school kids became more stupid under the Obama administration, according to rankings released by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.

They recently released the results of a worldwide exam administered every three years to 15-year-olds in 72 countries. The exam monitors reading, math and science knowledge.

Click here to learn how to take back your local public school!

Based on their findings, the United States saw an 11-point drop in math scores and nearly flat levels for reading and science.

The Land of the Free, Home of the Brave, fell below the OECD average  and failed to crack the top ten in all three categories.

In other words, thanks to the Obama administrations education policies, kids in the Slovac Republic are more proficient in multiplication.

In fairness, American teenagers may not know long form division - but by golly they know their non-binary gender pronouns. Yes sir, they do!

But you can't blame the kids for being dumb as rocks.

Instead of aspiring to greatness, public schools across the fruited plain are programming kids to be mediocre.

It doesn't matter if Little Johnny thinks five plus four is 12.

Modern-day classrooms are safe spaces where everybodys a winner  everybody gets a gold star.

There's just one problem with that philosophy. When Little Johnny becomes Big Johnny he's going to be living off the taxpayer dime.

And good luck making change down at the Piggly Wiggly.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*The federal court judge who blocked President Trumps temporary travel ban is the poster child for everything thats wrong with Americas legal system.

U.S. District Judge James Robart is the man who blocked President Trump's temporary immigration ban. The presidents decision to stop refugees from seven countries that are known breeding grounds for jihadists was prudent.

Click here to get Todds latest book  described by liberals as the most deplorable book in America.

In my estimation, we do not have a moral or constitutional obligation to let people into the country who want to blow us up or chop off our heads.

Judge Robart's restraining order puts Americans in harm's way and, as the Associated Press reports, contained erroneous information.

The judge said not a single person from any of the seven banned countries has been arrested for extremism. It turns out that was not true.

The Associated Press reports that an Iraqi refugee living in Texas pleaded guilty to attempting to provide support to the Islamic State. And in November, a Somali refugee used a car and knife to wage an attack at Ohio State University.

So President Trump was absolutely within his rights to call out Judge Robarts actions.

Folks, our federal court houses are infested with judicial activists. And the only way to root out the infestation is for President Trump to name conservative judges to the appellate courts.

But Republican presidents have had a bad habit of putting closet liberals on the bench. Democrats nominate liberals who stay liberal. But once GOP nominees get confirmed, their gavels go wobbly.

Judge Robart, for example, was appointed by President George W. Bush.

So not only do we need extreme vetting at the border, we also need extreme vetting in the court house.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*Super Bowl 51 was one heck of a game, folks. We were treated to a presidential coin flip, all the players stood for the national anthem and Lady Gaga kept her clothes on.

Click here for a free subscription to Todds newsletter: a must-read for Conservatives!

Miss Gaga also got bonus points for not injecting politics into the halftime show  and also for not wearing a dress made out of brisket.

Good on all of you, as we say back home in Tennessee.

Its just too bad the Super Bowls advertisers did not follow Miss Gagas example. A number of companies decided to play politics with their high-profile and high-dollar advertisements.

For the record, my publisher did not want to spend $5 million to promote my new book, The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. So Im posting a shameless plug in this column! Click here to get the book!

Lets start with Audi, the German car company. Their ad featured a dad and his daughter promoting equal pay for women.

Audi of America is committed to equal pay for equal work, they declared  apparently unaware America already has that law on the books.

The folks over at AirBNB ran a commercial on inclusiveness as did Google and Coca-Cola.

10 Haircare, a hair product company, trolled President Trumps lustrous mane.

America, were in for at least four years of awful hair, so its up to you to make up for it with great hair, the narrator of the commercial said.

But the most controversial ad came from 84 Lumber. It was titled, The Journey.

Their Super Bowl ad told the story of an illegal alien and her daughter -- trying to sneak across the border -- only to be stymied by a giant beautiful wall. When all appeared hopeless, the illegals discovered a door built by a guy using 84 Lumber materials.

In the final scene, the woman and her daughter open the door and violate American sovereignty.

The will to succeed is always welcome here, the ad said.

The hardware company was only allowed to show 90 seconds of the six-minute commercial during the Super Bowl. The remainder was posted online.

It was supposed to tug at the heart strings -- instead it gave Americans a bad case of heart burn. Critics bashed the hardware store  accusing them of spreading anti-American propaganda.

I'm not quite sure whose bright idea it was to crack American patriots over the head with a political 2x4.

It does seem a bit unusual that a company would spend millions of dollars in advertising just to send their customers to Home Depot.

If only 84 Lumber's female illegals had crossed the border in an Audi.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*If we really want to restore traditional values to our culture  we cant rely on the Republicans or the Democrats. Its going to be up to us  the folks Hillary Clinton called a basket of deplorables.

My new book, The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again, is a handbook to how we can reclaim our American heritage and how we can fight back against Social Justice Warriors and secular humanists.

Some of the nations top evangelical and conservative leaders have endorsed the book and the books message  including Franklin Graham and Mike Huckabee.

Todd Starnes has a pulse on todays culture and shines a discerning light on political correctness that has indoctrinated the minds of people from every walk of life, Graham said.

Yes. We elected Donald Trump. We saved the Supreme Court. And we're going to defend American sovereignty. But winning was just the beginning. My book offers practical advice on fighting and winning the war on traditional values.

Governor Mike Huckabee wrote: "The Deplorables' Guide to Making America Great Again" should be required reading for every high school student and every patriot in America.

Page after page Todd reminds us that every generation has a responsibility to defend our freedom, Huckabee said. Todd delivers a dose of deep-fried reality served up with a heaping helping of his signature Southern humor."

And that's how we're going to do it, America -- with the Bible in one hand and a hefty dose of humor in the other, I show you how we can be Happy Warriors!

The soft cover edition is available for pre-order on Amazon and Barnes & Noble.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*It's only a matter of time before Democrats accuse President Trumps Supreme Court nominee of hating puppies.

House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi launched a rather ugly attack on Judge Neil Gorsuch just moments after he was announced as Trumps nominee  calling him a very hostile appointment and well outside the mainstream of American legal thought.

Click here for a free subscription to Todds newsletter  a must-read for Conservatives.

If you breathe air, drink water, eat food, take medicine or in any other way, interact with the courts, this is a very bad decision, Pelosi said during a CNN town hall gathering.

In other words, liberals believe Judge Gorsuch wants to starve our kids and poison our drinking water  but otherwise hes a nice guy.

Congresswoman Pelosi stopped just short of calling him the spawn of Satan.

For the record - Judge Gorsuch does not hate children or puppies. He is a good and decent man. A faithful husband, devoted father.

He enjoys fly fishing and skiing and once worked as an overnight desk clerk at Howard Johnsons. He raises horses and goats and chickens on his Colorado farm.

Click here to get Todds new book The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again!

And based on a brief examination of his family lineage, I believe its safe to say Judge Gorsuch is not an offspring of the Prince of Darkness.

There's going to be a lot of mud-slinging, folks. Liberals are genuinely repulsed by any judicial appointee who values life and liberty.

And the fact that Judge Gorsuch once defended cross-shaped memorials for fallen state troopers is sure to cause a conniption among the atheist, agnostic and free-thinker crowd.

President Trump should be commended for nominating a judge in the mold of Justice Antonin Scalia  a judge who will no doubt defend religious liberty.

Promise made. Promise kept, said Jerry A. Johnson, president of National Religious Broadcasters. President Trump boldly told the American people the list of potential justices from which he would make his choice, and he kept that promise by nominating Judge Gorsuch.

So if you will allow me a moment of personal privilege -- I would like to offer this petition on behalf of the presidents nominee

Almighty and Most Merciful God, we beseech thee. Protect Judge Gorsuch from the liberal hate mob that is about to descendeth upon thy servant like a pack of rabid jackals. May they feast not upon thy servants judicial carcass. Give our Brother the intestinal fortitude to resist the urge to whacketh the wicked as they are about to whacketh him.

Amen.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*The Boy Scouts of America sacrificed its last vestige of integrity on the altar of political correctness.

On Monday, the BSA announced that girls who identify as boys will now be allowed to join the Boy Scouts and Cub Scouts  marking a complete capitulation to the gender and sex revolutionaries.

As I wrote in The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again, the time has come for every church and every parent in America to sever ties with the Boy Scouts.

This is Exhibit A of the insatiable demands of those pushing this sexual anarchy, Family Research Council president Tony Perkins told me.

The policy change takes effect immediately and has parents asking some very pointed questions: will transgender children will be able to share tents and bathrooms in the Great Outdoors with heterosexual boys?

Click here for a free subscription to Todds newsletter: a must-read for Conservatives!

For more than 100 years, the Boy Scouts of America, along with schools, youth sports and other youth organizations, have ultimately deferred to the information on an individuals birth certificate to determine eligibility for our single-gender programs, spokesperson Rebecca Rausch told Associated Press. "However, that approach is no longer sufficient as communities and state laws are interpreting gender identity differently, and these laws vary widely from state to state.

In "The Deplorables' Guide to Making America Great Again," I predicted the Boy Scouts would eventually abdicate all of their long-cherished traditions to the demands of militant social justice warriors.

So whats a patriotic American young man supposed to do?

I recommend Trail Life USA, a Christ-centered scouting program that has exploded in growth since its founding in 2014. Nearly 30,000 young people are now involved in the program  a number of them former Boy Scouts.

Perkins, also gave Trail Life USA high marks.

Its what the BSA used to be before its leadership compromised the core tenets of scouting, he told me.

In a statement released late Monday, Trail Life assured its members and charter organizations nationwide that we are committed to the biblical traditional values affirmed in our statement of faith and values.

John Stemberger, chairman of Trail Lifes board of directors, told me the BSA decision is sad beyond belief.

Its the beginning of the end of what the Boy Scouts used to mean, he said. Its really a sad move.

He warned the decision will put boys in a state of confusion and does nothing to help normal psychological development.

Aside from the fact they are now going to confuse literally hundreds of thousands of young men and boys  you are now going to have further youth protection problems, he said. Facilities and campgrounds are not designed for this type of thing.

The BSA is also going to face some logistical issues. Will boys and girls be allowed to shower together? Will they be allowed to use the same camp dressing rooms? What sort of restroom accommodations will be provided for transgender scouts?

Its simply stunning that a leading youth organization which parents entrust the protection of their children with has opted to again appease political activists rather than follow clear, common-sense best practices for child protection, Stemberger said.

Stemberger said whats really sad is the BSA rarely talks about its original mission  to teach young people ethics and morals  to teach them how to make ethical and moral decisions through their lifetime.

But those days are long gone.

Besides, how can the Boy Scouts of America teach ethics and morals when its adult leaders cant muster the courage to stand morally straight in the face of militant gender revolutionaries?

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*The mainstream media, liberals and Hollywood are pitching a super-sized hissy fit over President Trumps decision to protect the fruited plain from blood-thirsty jihadists.

They seem to think we are under some sort of moral obligation to allow refugees to flood into the country without vetting and pray that nobody gets blown up. I write about this very issue in my new book, The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again.

Click here for a free subscription to Todds newsletter: a must-read for Conservatives!

I watched in utter amazement this weekend as hordes of agitators swarmed airports across the country  causing all sorts of mayhem.

CNN called the protests spontaneous  which is quite remarkable  considering a number of protesters were waving professionally-made banners and posters.

Muslims at DFW International Airport turned a baggage claim area into a makeshift mosque  kneeling on prayer rugs and chanting, Allah.

And there was nary a peep from TSA or airport officials.

But heaven help the poor fellow who tries to go through a TSA check point with a bottle of Head & Shoulders in his carry-on luggage.

Click here for Todds new book  the most deplorable book in modern American history.

New York Governor Andrew Cuomo lashed out at the president  saying New Yorkers have no tolerance for intolerance.

New York City Mayor and Communist sympathizer Bill de Blasio said the ban was chilling to anyone in America who cares about religious liberty.

These are the same guys who tried to shut down a Chick-fil-A franchise and told gun-toting, Bible-clingers they were not welcome in the Empire State.

So spare us your righteous indignation.

Chicago Mayor Rahm Emmanuel said he plans on hosting illegal aliens in his home and urged citizens to do the same.

Thats a mighty thoughtful gesture, but it might be safer for the refugees to eat a slice of deep dish pizza in Syria rather than the Windy Citys South Side.

The mainstream media feared the president was going overboard to protect Christians from radical Islamists, Newsbusters reported.

CNNs Carol Costello, seemed genuinely troubled that his underlying goal was to make this country aggressively Christian.

Failed talk show host Piers Morgan addressed the issue in a bizarre column titled, More Americans were killed last year by toddlers with guns than by Muslim terrorists, Mr. President  where is the executive order to stop THAT?

This executive order is not making America great, Morgan wrote in the Daily Mail. Its making America hate.

Mr. Morgan is British.

It is grotesquely unfair because it punishes many decent, law-abiding people who have every right to be in the country, he added.

Piers Morgan is the poster child for extreme vetting.

Hollywood is even worse  marginalizing Christianity while embracing Islam.

The people who play make believe for a living went out of their way to denounce President Trump during the Screen Actors Guild awards Sunday.

We have to speak up, actress Emma Stone said. Staying silent only helps the oppressor, not the victim. Right now I hope that people seeing things that are being done that are unconstitutional and inhumane would say something.

Here's a thought -- next year -- hold the SAG awards in downtown Tehran. I hear the Ayatollahs are big Rosie O'Donnell fans.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*The first week of the Trump presidency is coming to a close and sweet mercy, America  what a week! Hes well on his way to making America great again.

In less than five days, President Donald Trump has already managed to crack down on illegal aliens, defend pro-lifers, rattle Democrats and discombobulate the Mainstream Media.

I really like this guy!

As I wrote in my new book, The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again, it was my prayer that President Trump would deliver on his campaign promises. And he did just that.

This is what it looks like when a president puts in a full days work  instead of taking selfies, working on his NCAA brackets and whacking balls at the local golf course.

Im especially glad that hes cracking down on sanctuary cities  threatening to pull federal dollars from municipalities that harbor criminal illegals.

The president also vowed to protect us from radical Islam  by temporarily suspending visas from nations that breed jihadists.

Click here to get a limited edition, signed copy of Todds new book!

This White House will not coddle the Islamists or the Ayatollahs.

And it turns were also going to build a wall, America. I know some of you folks thought President Trumps wall was some sort of metaphor  but by golly  he actually plans on building a great, big, larger-than-life, literal wall.

And Mexico is going to pay for it  peso by peso.

President Trump promised to put America first and hes delivering on that promise.

Now some of you good readers might feel lightheaded. I completely understand. Its a foreign concept to conservatives.

Imagine  a Republican president who actually does what he promised to do on the campaign trail! Never in all my life did I think I'd see that day.

All I can say is thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for keeping your word.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*Grab a shovel, America -- President Trump is about to build that wall.

The White House on Wednesday rolled out a series of executive actions on immigration and border security  designed to restore American sovereignty  an issue I address in my new book, The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again.

Among other things  President Trump announced a crackdown on sanctuary cities that harbor illegal aliens. He also plans to provide the Department of Homeland Security with more resources to fight illegal immigration.

And remember the Obama administrations catch and release policies? Well, those days are now over.

In other words -- all of you illegals out there might want to pack a bag and catch the next Greyhound bus to Nuevo Laredo.

Click here to join Todds newsletter: a must-read for Conservatives!

The president also plans on temporarily suspending visas from countries that are loaded with radical Muslims  places like Syria, Yemen, Somalia, Sudan and Libya.

These executive orders will not make our nation any safer, rather it will make our nation more fearful and less welcoming, and such restrictions run contrary to (the) very founding principles of our nation, Hassan Shibly, executive director of CAIR-Florida told CNN.

Its no surprise that critics are enraged  accusing the administration of being xenophobic and Islamophobic. They seem to think we should roll out the red carpet for illegals at the expense of law-abiding Americans.

We are barely a week into the Trump presidency and he's already managed to dump TPP, engage pro-lifers, rattle Democrats and discombobulate the mainstream media.

I really like this guy.

I mean, the sheer scope of his immigration policies is incredible. Hes cracking down on sanctuary cities -- temporarily suspending visas from hotbeds of radical Islam and building a wall.

Were going to build a wall, America! To be honest, there were moments during the presidential campaign when I wondered if the wall was some sort of metaphor. But no sir! By golly, he plans on building a great, big, larger-than-life, Trump signature wall.

Imagine that, folks -- a Republican president who does what he promised to do on the campaign trail. Never in all my life did I think I'd see that day.

All I can say is thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for keeping your word.

To be clear, the president's executive orders are not xenophobic or Islamophobic. They are not anti-Mexican or anti-refugee. Rather, President Trump's immigration and border security policies are pro-American. I know that must be a shocking concept  especially after the past eight years.

But President Trump promised to put America first -- and he's delivering on that promise.

To the nations of the world -- we are more than happy to welcome your huddled masses yearning to breathe free. But if it's all the same -- you can just keep the deadbeats and reprobates -- and the people who want to blow us up.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*Inauguration Day was turned into Retribution Day as hordes of angry leftists set fires, smashed windows and clashed with police to protest President Donald Trump.

It was the kind of reaction I predicted in my new book, The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again.

Click here to get a limited edition hardcover edition of Todds new book.

Rampaging mobs caused mayhem across the fruited plain  but especially in our nations capital. In several instances, conservatives were attacked outside Inaugural balls.

Some were left bloodied and battered. Police were pelted with rocks and batteries. Many businesses were vandalized. Car windows were smashed and a limo was set ablaze.

One group of violent thugs spat on and assaulted a Gold Star widow and her sister. They were attacked as they tried to enter the Veterans Inaugural Ball.

Its all part of an effort to destabilize the nation and delegitimize President Trumps victory.

The following day scores of self-described nasty women, held profane gatherings across the country to protest the new president.

Madonna told a crowd of protesters dressed in pink hats and Birkenstocks that she dreamed of blowing up the White House.

Yes, Im angry. Yes I am outraged. Yes, I have thought an awful lot about blowing up the White House. But I know this wont change anything, she told a crowd of adoring feminists.

She later walked back the threat.

Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich said Madonna shouldve been arrested.

What you have is an emerging left-wing fascism, he told "Fox & Friends." Shes part of it and I think we have to be prepared to protect ourselves. Frankly, the truth is she ought to be arrested for saying she has thought about blowing up the White House.

I concur with Speaker Gingrich.

As I wrote in The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again, we are dealing with an alarming number of militant fascists.

Our public universities have been turned into training camps for far-left militants, hell-bent on silencing any speech they disagree with. And as they demonstrated on Inauguration Day, they will use any means necessary to accomplish that task.

We are facing a clear and present danger to our families and the Republic. And as I wrote in my book, we must prepare now to protect ourselves and our loved ones against these violent street thugs.

Conservatives are a peaceful and law-abiding people. But we will not be intimidated. We will not be bullied. And we will not be silenced.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*Trump supporter Scott Koleskey had stowed his backpack in the overhead compartment and was about to settle into his window seat when he was verbally flogged by a fellow passenger.

It happened Saturday on board an Alaska Airlines flight from Baltimore to Seattle.

Click here to subscribe to Todds newsletter: a must-read for Conservatives!

She immediately asked me, Did you come to cheer or to protest? Scott told me as he recounted the ordeal.

As I was sliding into my seat I told her I came to celebrate democracy, he said.

Scott had traveled all the way from Kalispell, Montana so he could stand on the National Mall and watch Donald Trump take the oath of office.

Im a Trump supporter and Im a patriot, he said.

Todds new book shows conservatives how to fight back against liberal fascists!

He said the woman, seated in the middle seat, went from zero to 60.

There was no discussion or escalation. It was her coming out of the gate swinging at me with insults, he said.

She said, Shame on you and all of the cockroaches that supported him, Scott recounted. She called me fat and she said, f*** you.

About three minutes into the verbal assault, Scott pressed the record button on his cell phone. What he filmed has since gone viral.

You pretend you have the moral high ground but you put that mans finger on the nuclear button, she said. That man doesnt believe in climate change. Do you believe in gravity? Did you know gravity is just a theory?

Exasperated flight attendants tried to calm the hysterical woman  but she would not comply with their demands.

Have some respect, she told one of the flight attendants.

Scott said it was a bit ironic that she would demand respect  while she was disparaging a fellow passenger.

At one point, the unidentified woman threatened to vomit in Scotts lap.

Im going to throw up right in your lap. You make me sick. Dont talk to me. Dont look at me. Dont you dare even put your arm on that rest. You disgust me, she reportedly told the bewildered Trump supporter.

Police were eventually summoned to remove the foul-mouthed woman from the jetliner as other passengers cheered and chanted, USA, USA.

She was definitely causing a big disturbance for everyone on the plane, Scott said. And I was relieved I wasnt going to be harassed for a five-hour flight.

It turns out this story has a happy ending. A standby passenger  hoping to return home to see his wife and daughter  was given the anti-Trump womans seat.

Scott said the man was a registered Democrat and he was taken aback by the womans hysterics.

He was very, very civil and we had some great discussions, Scott told me. He said it doesnt matter the disagreements we have  were all Americans. We should respect each other.

And thats the moral of this story, folks.

No matter what we believe in, no matter what our political views  we have to treat each other with civility and respect no matter what, Scott said.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*Students at Independence High School in Williamson County, Tennessee, will not be allowed to watch President-elect Donald Trumps inauguration during class on Friday, according to one student and her mother.

Click here for a free subscription to Todds newsletter: a must-read for conservatives!

Senior Olivia Roberts was so surprised by the ban she decided to write a Facebook post that has since gone viral:

To preface this, I am not one to post or debate anything political on Facebook but wanted to hear thoughts on this:

I go to public school and we are not allowed to watch the inauguration tomorrow...

Teachers are banned to show it.

Teachers are also not allowed to discuss anything about politics or religions which is understandable but this is a nationwide event in history that I think an a US citizen (whether you are happy about it or not) should be watched to honor and support the president of The United States of America (no matter who it is) And pay respect to the country we are privileged to live in. We watched the last 2 presidential inaugurations in school.

Suzanne Roberts is Olivias mother. She thought it was really strange that teachers would not be allowed to show such a historic event in the classroom. So she picked up the phone and called the principal.

Instead of getting answers, she said she received a lecture from the principal.

I asked her if there was a policy regarding inaugurations but instead of answering she asked me, Why is it important for you personally that your child see the inauguration live?

I was a little thrown off, she told me.

She told me that Independence High School is going to focus on learning and moving forward and staying on curriculum and they would not be stopping class for the inauguration, Mrs. Roberts said. She told me that news happens every day in this country and they wont be stopping class to watch the news.

However, Carol Birdsong, a school district spokesman, said late Thursday, "there has not been any type of districtwide directive regarding watching the inauguration, either live or replayed, and to our knowledge, no principal has banned teachers from watching the event with students as might be appropriate."

Meanwhile, fourth graders at a Michigan grade school will not be allowed to watch President Trump's inauguration address because their teacher fears he might use inflammatory and degrading language.

Conservative radio host Steve Gruber obtained a letter purportedly written by teacher Brett Meteyer and sent to parents at Explorer Elementary School in the small town of Williamston.

Meteyer said he was concerned about children being exposed to inappropriate language and behavior.

I am anxious about showing Mr. Trumps inaugural address, given his past inflammatory and degrading comments about minorities, women, and the disabled, he wrote. I am also uneasy about Mr. Trumps casual use of profanity, so I sought an assurance that as their teacher, I would not be exposing children to language that would not appear in G or PG-rated movies.

Does the teacher really think that the president-elect is going to deliver his inaugural address while dropping f-bombs from sea to shining sea? "Ask not what your country can do for you..."

Ive covered a lot of educators acting moronically over the past few years, but this guy takes the cake.

I put in a request to the Trump team to preview the speech, but I have not heard back from them, he reportedly wrote to parents.

Im going to go out on a limb here and suggest the president-elects transition team has more pressing matters to attend to than being lectured by a fourth grade school teacher.

The school district sent me a statement acknowledging they are aware of discourse within the community regarding a teacher parent communication surrounding the Presidential inauguration.

The district administration expects teachers to present a balanced perspective consistent with the curriculum and demonstrate good judgement in their communications with families, the statement read. Administrators do not preview nor censor communications sent by teachers.

What a load of pretentious pomposity.

President Trump is going to have a difficult time making America great again with educators like this stinking up our nations classrooms.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*An epidemic of biblical proportion is spreading across the fruited plain at this very hour.

The Centers for Disease Control has yet to identify the malady -- but it seems to be an isolated outbreak impacting liberals, millennials, fashion designers, Hollywood celebrities and the entire primetime lineup at CNN.

Click here for a free subscription to Todds newsletter: a must-read for Conservatives!

The affliction is called Trump Derangement Syndrome (TDS). Symptoms include delusional ranting and a feverish flop sweat.

I write extensively about the epidemic in my new book, The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Liberals say its the most deplorable book in America.

Congressional Democrats have become so incapacitated by the illness that dozens will be unable to attend president-elect Trumps inauguration.

Georgia Congressman John Lewis was stricken with a rare strain of the disease that caused him to foam at the mouth while muttering about Trump being an illegitimate president.

Based upon his unintelligible ramblings, Im afraid the congressmans cheese has done slid off his cracker.

Meanwhile, a number of Radio City Music Hall Rockettes were also infected  causing some to weep uncontrollably after they learned they would be performing for the new president.

"This was such a horrible bomb to drop on us at Christmas, one of the dancing girls told Marie Claire magazine. We work so hard, we're so tired. We're sleep-deprived, our bodies are exhausted. We don't really have lives, even in our off-seasonwe really respect each other, and care about each other, and that's why this is so difficult."

How terribly unfair it must be for the Rockettes to earn a paycheck by performing for people who share differing political opinions.

Trump Derangement Syndrome is a cruel disease that has even impacted the nations religious community.

All Saints Church Episcopal church in Pasadena, California has decided to refrain from mentioning the president-elects name during prayers over fears it might trigger microaggressions among parishoners.

Meanwhile, reports that some congregants spontaneously combusting upon hearing Trump's name have been proven untrue.

There are also unconfirmed reports that San Francisco, Brooklyn, and Los Angeles have been designated as sanctuary cities to house the afflicted.

Researchers are not sure if Trump Derangement Syndrome will dissipate after Inauguration Day -- but there are fears it might linger.

So if you come across an afflicted liberal -- please direct them to the nearest safe space or containment zone.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*Universities across the fruited plain are trying to convince men to grow lady parts. And thats a problem, America.

Campus Reform recently reported on efforts to provide safe spaces to fight back against what the academic world calls, toxic masculinity.

Click here for a free subscription to Todds newsletter: a must-read for conservatives.

Instead of a country full of manly men, our universities want a nation full of Pajama Boys.

Oregon State University is hosting a health masculinities conference. Students will engage in collective imagining to construct new futures for masculinities, unrestricted by power, privilege, and oppression.

Brown University has a program titled, Masculinity 101  for students who identify as men, Campus Reform reports.

Get a load of the course description titled, Unlearning Toxic Masculinity:

Men will often resort to violence to resolve conflict because anger is the only emotion that they have been socialized to express. Unfortunately, the way that young men are conditioned to view sex and their need to be dominant and have power over others also contribute to instances of sexual assault and other forms of interpersonal violence on college campuses.

In the hit Broadway musical My Fair Lady, Professor Henry Higgins laments in a song, Why cant a woman be more like a man? Today, Professor Higgins might be singing a different tune, Why cant a man be more like a woman?

Could you imagine the Greatest Generation flitting about town after a spa and dishing about their inner-most thoughts with life coaches?

In todays reengineered version of manhood, guys no longer have friends  they have bromances and they settle disputes by hugging it out.

Mens magazines are now filled with articles like, Should a Man Show Nipple? and What Men Know about Wearing Eyeliner. A survey by AskMen.com found that 20 percent of men have no problem wearing makeup.

In my book, Dispatches From Bitter America, I pondered these developments.

Can you imagine John Wayne using moisturizer and a concealer stick to hide razor nicks? Would todays version of "The Godfather" accessorize with Dolche Gabana while settling family business with group hugs?

A few years ago I conducted an unscientific poll to determine what the average American woman looks for in a man.

The poll results were not all that surprising. Ladies want a man who loves God and loves his family. They also want a man who, in no particular order:

1. Has a job;

2. Drives a pickup truck;

3. Uses the bathroom standing up;

4. Eats meat;

5. And is willing to carry them out of a burning building.

In other words -- they want the kind of man made in God's image -- not the image of some effeminate intellectual stuffed in skinny jeans sipping chai tea with his pinky finger extended.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*If we really want to restore traditional values to our culture  we cant rely on the Republicans or the Democrats. Its going to be up to us  the folks Hillary Clinton called a basket of deplorables.

My new book, The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again, is a handbook to how we can reclaim our American heritage and how we can fight back against Social Justice Warriors and secular humanists.

Yes. We elected Donald Trump. We saved the Supreme Court. And we're going to defend American sovereignty. But winning was just the beginning. My book offers practical advice on fighting and winning the war on traditional values.

My book has been endorsed by a who's who of deplorable Americans including Duck Commander Phil Robertson, Dr. Robert Jeffress, Janet Parshall and Don Wilton, Billy Grahams pastor.

Governor Mike Huckabee wrote: "The Deplorables' Guide to Making America Great Again" should be required reading for every high school student and every patriot in America. Page after page Todd reminds us that every generation has a responsibility to defend our freedom. Todd delivers a dose of deep-fried reality served up with a heaping helping of his signature Southern humor."

And that's how we're going to do it, America -- with the Bible in one hand and a hefty dose of humor in the other, I show you how we can be Happy Warriors!

Click here to get a personally-autographed, limited edition hard cover edition of "The Deplorables' Guide to Making America Great Again."

The soft cover edition is available for pre-order on Amazon and Barnes & Noble.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*Tony-award winning singer Jennifer Holliday has decided not to sing at President-elect Donald Trumps inauguration  caving in to significant pressure from gay and lesbian fans who were outraged by her decision to put patriotism over politics.

I sincerely apologize for my lapse of judgment, for being uneducated on the issues that affect every American at this crucial time in history and for causing such dismay and heartbreak for my fans, Holliday wrote in a letter provided to The Wrap.

The apology came one day after she defended her participation in an interview with The New York Times.

Weve become such a polarized country  were not listening to what the Obamas have said, she told the newspaper. They told us to move forward with hope  they didnt tell us to stop participating.

Holliday went on to say she was singing for the people  the nation.

I voted for Mrs. Clinton, and they knew that. But if someone wants me to sing a national anthem or something, we think about America, and we go, she said.

It wasnt long before Holliday learned that the Trump Administration appreciates tolerance and diversity more than militant members of the LGBT community.

CLICK HERE TO ORDER TODD STARNES' NEW BOOK

It brought a lot of threats from people already saying Ill never work again, she told the newspaper. If thats what America has come to, where we all hate and bully people, theres no more freedom of speech.

Welcome to my world, Holliday  the world of the gun-toting, Bible-clinging, Deplorable Americans.

I know everybody hates me now, but that shows we are all just hateful people now  we dont even want to work together, she said.

And on Saturday the militant gay and lesbian community got what they wanted  nothing short of complete allegiance to their cause.

Please know that I HEAR YOU and I feel your pain, she wrote in her apology letter to the lesbian, bisexual, gay, transgender, gender neutral, asexual, questioning, non-binary, gender fluid crowd. The LGBT Community was mostly responsible for birthing my career and I am deeply indebted to you.

In other words, Holliday regrets putting patriotism ahead of the personal feelings of the gay and lesbian community.

I am somewhat sympathetic to her plight. I believe this was the first time, she had been bullied by a bunch of vulgar, militant social justice warriors. It can be unnerving for first-timers.

Hell hath no fury like a lesbian, bisexual, gay, transgender, asexual, gender neutral, questioning, non-binary, gender fluid fan scorned.

Regardless, this ugly episode is a reminder that we pledge allegiance to the American flag  not the Rainbow Flag.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*President-elect Donald Trumps pick for attorney general is facing nothing short of a racially-motivated, political lynch mob on Capitol Hill.

Prior to his confirmation hearing, two men dressed in Ku Klux Klan robes shouting in Southern accents were removed from the hearing room.

Click here for a free subscription to Todds newsletter: a must-read for Conservatives!

The incident set the stage for what will no doubt be an ugly attempt by Democrats to assassinate the character of the gentleman from Alabama.

Some Democrats are calling him by his given name, Jefferson Beauregard Sessions  a wink-wink, nod-nod to the Civil War  as if hes a slave-holding plantation owner.

Remember how indignant Democrats were when Republicans referred to our current president by his full name, Barack Hussein Obama? But these days, the Lefts indignation is rather selective.

Click here for your copy of Todds NEW book: The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again!

The New York Post correctly predicted the Left and the Mainstream Media were tarring the Alabama senator as a racist.

Sen. Cory Booker, D-NJ, plans to testify against Sessions  an unprecedented decision.

The immense powers of the attorney general combined with the deeply troubled views of this nominee is a call to conscience, Booker wrote in a statement published by Politico.

The Congressional Black Caucus is leading the charge to destroy Sessions.

Rep. Andrew Carson, D-Ind.. told Think Progress that Sessions stands by and makes disparaging remarks against people of color who raise their voices in protest.

Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Calif., accused the senator of having a long legacy of insensitive, racially-charged comments against minorities.

The NAACP went so far as to tweet that Sessions supports an old, ugly history when it comes to civil rights, the newspaper reported.

They went on to accuse the distinguished senator of having a troubled history of racial discrimination.

The NAACP and CBC smeared Sessions character without offering a shred of documented evidence that hes a racist. But there is plenty of evidence to support the claims that hes a defender of civil rights.

During his tenure as a U.S. attorney, he desegregated schools.

He also prosecuted the head of the Alabama Ku Klux Klan for murder. The Post reports that prosecution led to a multi-million dollar judgment that broke the back of the Klan.

But those facts do not fit the NAACPs or the CBCs hateful narrative.

Senator Sessions is a good and decent man  an Eagle Scout. He is a husband, a father and a grandfather. Hes a faithful member of the Methodist Church and a former Sunday school teacher.

And he deserves better than to be bullied just because he's a white Southern man named Jefferson Beauregard.

Judge a man by the content of his character -- that's what Martin Luther King said.

The Congressional Black Caucus and the NAACP should heed Dr. Kings words.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*A small business owner in Oregon has a message for CNN, ignorant liberals and Bruce Springsteen: Weve had it with you idiots.

Kevin Kerwin is the proprietor of Kevin the Geek Computer Repair store in Lake Oswego. Hes also one of the few conservatives around town.

Click here for a free subscription to Todds newsletter: a must-read for conservatives!

Oregon is a very beautiful state, but its infested with liberals, Kevin tells me.

Kevin was especially bothered by the militant liberals who tried to burn down Portland following the 2016 presidential election.

And it did not help matters when Bruce Springsteen, one of his favorite singers, raged against Trumps supporters and suggested the president-elect appealed to un-American tendencies.

When you let that genie out of the bottle  bigotry, racism, intolerance  they dont go back into the bottle that easily, if they go back in at all, Springsteen said on the WTF podcast. Whether its a rise in hate crimes, people feeling they have license to speak and behave in ways that previously were considered un-American and are un-American. Thats what hes appealing to.

Click here to pre-order Todds new book: A Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again!

Just hearing him say that kind of stuff makes me mad, Kevin said.

But when four black suspects kidnapped and tortured a mentally challenged white man and pummeled him on Facebook Live  well  Kevin decided enough was enough.

When that kidnapping happened  that was one of the last straws, he said.

So Kevin posted a giant sign on the front of his computer repair shop  and its pretty epic, folks.

To all the ignorant liberals including Bruce SpringsteenThe 4 people who kidnapped & tortured a disabled teenager just because he supports Donald Trump  Just shows everyone you are a party of complete morons. Im embarrassed to call you Americans. Go straight to Hell where you belong. Weve had it with you idiots.

For the record, theres no clear evidence the young man who was tortured was actually a Trump supporter. However, its clear the victims attackers were displeased with not only Trump but white people, too.

Oh, he also had a message for CNN, calling them Comedy News Network, Fake News all the Time, Propaganda for Liberals.

Again with the brilliant analysis!

Its not the first time Kevin has posted a message on the front of his store  and its not the first time hes posted his true feelings regarding liberals.

Theyve all boycotted my store, (but) I dont care what they think, he said. Ive got a lot of great conservatives here and they support my shop.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*My father was a member of the Silent Majority and had he been alive he wouldve cast his vote for Donald J. Trump. He wouldve been one of those people Hillary Clinton called a "deplorable."

Ive lived in New York City for more than a decade now  and Ive seen firsthand the contempt for country folks like my father  people from rural America.

Click here to pre-order Todds new book, The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again!

As I write in my new book, The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again, I feel like a "Duck Dynasty" guy living in a "Modern Family" world  where right is wrong, wrong is right  its as if our values have been turned upside down.

President Obama called us "bitter." He said we were the kinds of people who cling to guns and religion.

Time and time again he stood on foreign soil and apologized for our nation. And to this day it remains unclear whether he believes the United States is the most exceptional nation on Earth.

And how can we forget what Miss Hillary said?

"To just be grossly generalistic, you can put half of Trump supporters into what I call the 'basket of deplorables. Right? Racist, sexist, homophobic, xenophobic, Islamophobic, you name it."

The only thing deplorable was Hillary Clinton's basket of grossly generalistic comments.

"And unfortunately, there are people like that and he has lifted them up," she went on to say. "He has given voice to their websites that used to only have 11,000 people, now have 11 million. He tweets and retweets offensive, hateful, mean-spirited rhetoric."

Her campaign portrayed conservative Catholicism as a bastardization of the faith and seemed to imply that Evangelicals are a bunch of impoverished country bumpkins.

We were mocked by Hollywood and dismissed by academics. We were marginalized by the media  bullied and belittled by sex and gender revolutionaries.

But all that changed on Election Day  when Donald Trump became a champion for the Silent Majority. He gave us a voice. And now the Silent Majority is silent no more.

We the People have decided that its time to drain the swamp.

Its time to restore traditional values. Its time to protect the Constitution. Its time to defend our sovereignty. Its time to save unborn babies.

Its time to stand up for the American working man (and woman) and bring jobs back from China and Mexico. Its time to eradicate the scourge of ObamaCare.

And that, my friends, is the top story of 2016.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*While Christmas carolers were proclaiming Joy to the World - President Obama was backstabbing Israel.

The United States refused to veto a United Nations resolution last week that condemned Israel's settlements on the West Bank.

Click here for a FREE subscription to Todd's Newsletter: a must-read for Conservatives!

The Simon Wiesenthal Center named the Obama administration's move as the worst case of anti-Semitism in 2016.

"The most stunning 2016 UN attack on Israel was facilitated by President [Barack] Obama when the US abstained on a UN Security Council resolution condemning Israel for settlement construction. It reversed decades-long US policy of vetoing such diplomatic moves against the Jewish State," the Jewish human rights organization wrote.

And honestly -- it's not all that surprising. This president seems more comfortable sipping appletinis with the despots who want to wipe Israel off the face of the Earth.

To continue reading Todd's column, click here.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*It was not so much as a Christmas miracle as it was a Christmas compromise, but the good news is the cross has been returned to the town Christmas tree in Knightstown, Indiana.

The cross had been removed from atop the towns Christmas tree several weeks ago after the ACLU of Indiana filed a lawsuit on behalf of a local resident who was offended by the Christian symbol.

Click here to join Todds newsletter: a must-read for Conservatives!

This town has a big heart, Knightstown United Methodist Church pastor Curt Hunt told me. It felt like that heart got ripped out when that cross was taken down from that tree.

The ACLU faced a severe backlash from outraged citizens from across the country.

This was just concerned citizens coming together to defend the rights of everyone to express freedom of religion, the pastor told me. We decided we needed to draw a line in the sand and show the world we have those rights to express our religion.

As part of the agreement, the cross cannot be posted atop the tree, but it can be posted near the top and it can also be lighted  provided there are other lighted ornaments, Fox 59 reports.

And sure enough on Thursday the cross was posted just below the star that now adorns the tree top  much the delight of local residents.

It was very symbolic of the heart of this town, Pastor Hunt said.

THE WEEK IN PICTURES

But theres more to this story.

The pastor told me the father of the young man who filed the lawsuit is dealing with a serious medical issue. So last Sunday, Christians from across the community got together to raise money and provide food to the family.

They showered the family at the heart of the controversy with love and compassion.

We felt it very important for the world to know that an appropriate Christian response to someone poking at what we believe is that we reach out to them in the love of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, the pastor said.

I wrote about this concept in my new book, The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Its okay to stand for your faith  so long as you dont become a noisy gong or clanging cymbal.

Express your faith in a positive way so that the world knows that Jesus Christ is someone to follow and not someone to condemn or be offended by, he said.

Goodwill to men.

What a wonderful Christmas lesson from the good people of Knightstown.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*This may come as a shock to some of you -- but I am a white man. It's true. They tell me I'm pretty fly -- but that's a conversation for another day.

I'm also Southern, drive a pickup truck, eat barbecue, go to church on Sunday and get a little misty whenever I hear Elvis Presley's "American Trilogy."

Click here for a free subscription to Todds newsletter: a must-read for Conservatives!

Now, if you listen closely you might be able to hear the sound of MTV's audience weeping and moaning as they stampede to a safe space. It appears white guys are prone to trigger microaggressions among the network's delicate viewership.

Case in point -- MTV's "2017 Resolutions for White Guys" video  which has now been removed from the networks website.

The video starts off with a non-white person instructing pale faces to listen up because "there's a few things we think you could do a little bit better in 2017."

From there, we learn that "America was never great for anyone who wasn't a white guy" and that "Black lives just matter." A white female tells us to "learn what mansplaining is and then stop doing it."

What's wrong with having a thoughtful and well-reasoned conversation about an issue instead of getting all worked up? (Stand down, feminists  its a joke)

Newsbusters says the list of complaints was compiled by professional grievance artists. Now to be fair -- I've never met anyone employed by MTV. So I have no idea who came up with the list. It could've been Black Panthers with a beef or maybe angry white women with man issues or a gender neutral ze ir zir who self identifies as non-white.

Or maybe, just maybe MTVs Blame the White Guy video was the brainchild of a bunch of dimwitted, perpetually-offended racist pinheads.

My new book addresses this very issue: "The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again." It's a homage to all of us folks stuffed in Hillary's big basket of irredeemable deplorables. You can pre-order a copy by clicking here.

And be forewarned. This book will cause microaggressions -- because it was written by a white guy.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*For as far back as anyone can remember, there's always been a cross atop the Christmas tree on the square in Knightstown, Indiana.

Click here to join America's most popular Facebook community for Conservatives!

But that could change if the Grinches at the American Civil Liberties Union of Indiana have their way.

The ACLU filed a federal lawsuit against the town on behalf of Joseph Tomkins, a resident who said the image of the lighted cross has caused him "irreparable harm."

Click here to subscribe to Todd's newsletter: a must-read for Conservatives!

"The cross is the best known symbol of Christianity and Knightstown's prominent display of this symbol represents an establishment of religion in violation of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution," the lawsuit states.

The lawsuit demands the immediate removal of the cross, monetary damages and a declaration that the cross display violates the First Amendment, the Indianapolis Star reports.

Mr. Tompkins alleges he is "forced to come into direct and unwelcome contact" with the cross as he drives through town.

It's unclear whether the town will hire an attorney and fight this modern-day Ebenezer Scrooge, but many in this small town are ready to wage a yuletide legal battle.

"There's a church on every corner here," resident and relative Mark Tompkins told Fox 59.

For more on this story, visit ToddStarnes.com.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*Christmas in the Lone Star state has no greater defender than Attorney General Ken Paxton. So when he read my column about a middle school in Killeen that tried to censor the true meaning of Christmas, he decided it was time to jingle somebodys bells.

First, a quick refresher on the back story:

A staffer at Patterson Middle School was told she had to remove a poster depicting a scene from the cherished holiday classic, A Charlie Brown Christmas.

Click here to join America's most popular Conservative Christian Facebook page!

The door-length poster featured Linus, a scrawny tree and that beautiful recitation of the true meaning of Christmas.

For unto you is born this day in the city of David a savior which is Christ the Lord. Thats what Christmas is all about, Charlie Brown, Linus said.

Dedra Shannons poster was well-received among the staff and students  but a few days later she was told by the principal that she should either have to remove the religious references or remove the entire poster.

Linus could stay but the Baby Jesus had to go.

Click here for a FREE subscription to Todds newsletter: a must-read for Conservatives!

She said my poster is an issue of separation of church and state, Ms. Shannon told me. She said the poster had to come down because it might offend kids from other religions or those who do not have a religion.

Ms. Shannon refused to compromise her religious beliefs and ultimately removed the poster.

I wasnt going to leave Linus and the Christmas tree without having the dialogue. Thats the whole point of why it was put up.

The incident proves that public school tolerance can only be achieved by being intolerant towards Christians.

But it turns out the principal may have inadvertently broken the 2013 Merry Christmas law. That law stipulates no school official in Texas can silence a Biblical reference to Christmas.

I am proud to have voted for the Merry Christmas law in 2013, when I was a member of the legislature, Paxton said. We passed that law precisely because of this type of discrimination against people of faith.

Paxton minced no words in describing what happened in that hallway at Patterson Middle School.

This is an attack on religious liberty and a violation of the First Amendment and state law, he said. I am calling on the school board of the Killeen ISD to immediately reverse their unlawful decision.

For the past several days Ive been reaching out to the school district  but so far the superintendent has not returned my messages.

The school board has a long history of standing up for religious liberty.

Terry Delano, president of the school districts board of trustees, told me they voted to change the name of Winter Break to Christmas Break. And last year they defied the Freedom From Religion Foundations demand to cease praying before meetings.

The school district also ignored the Department of Educations demand that they open all bathrooms to the opposite gender.

These strong stances for Christianity and morality often go unreported and unnoticed, but they represent important victories in a time when our culture seems to be rotting in a cesspool, Mr. Delano wrote to me.

It sounds as if the good people of Killeen are being well-served by the school board and Im certain they will resolve this incident at the middle school  whether it was intentional or a misunderstanding.

Either way, Attorney General Paxton dropped a great big Yuletide truth bomb on the Killeen Independent School District: Dont mess with Texas and dont mess with Christmas. Otherwise, you might just find your tinsel in a twist.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*Donald Trump may be the next president of the United States but the war on religious liberty rages on.

The other day I received word that Connecticuts openly gay comptroller is targeting American Family Association, one of the nations most prominent and respected Christian ministries.

Click here for a free subscription to Todds newsletter: a must-read for conservatives !

If Comptroller Kevin Lembo has his way, AFA could be kicked out of the Connecticut State Employees Campaign for Charitable Giving (CSEC)  even though they are qualified as a charity under the rules.

Lembo sent AFA a letter accusing them possibly being in violation of the regulations governing the Connecticut State Employee Campaign for Charitable Giving that broadly prohibit discrimination.

He specifically mentioned AFAs petition to boycott Target over its transgender bathroom policies, and ministry statements regarding traditional marriage.

Click here to join the HOTTEST Conservative Facebook Community in America!

These actions and statements are extremely troubling to me -- not only as an openly gay father and spouse -- but as administrator of CSEC, he wrote. The AFAs statements and mission not only appear to discriminate against the LGBTQ communities, as well as Muslims who choose to serve and protect our country by enlisting in the military, but it remains unclear what actual charitable services the AFA provides that qualifies it to participate in the CSEC. I am, therefore, initiating an investigation to determine whether AFA is in compliance with the requirements of the CSEC. (Click here to read the comptrollers full letter.)

If Lembo follows through on his threats, it would mean state employees would not be able to contribute to AFA through the program, AFA president Tim Wildmon says.

This is a state government official coming directly after your AFA, and the letter is nothing more than an attack on AFA for standing strong for biblical principles, Wildmon said. Moreover, it is an unconstitutional attack on the First Amendment rights of all religious organizations. The government is not allowed to dictate to religious charities what they can believe in order to participate in the public square.

AFA general counsel Abraham Hamilton III, minced no words in his interpretation of the state comptrollers investigation.

"What's being foisted upon the American Family Association is the latest iteration of 'If you don't adhere to the nouveaux orthodoxy of the day  which is the sexual deviancy agenda  then you must be castigated and expelled from public life,'" he tells OneNewsNow.

First Liberty Institute attorney Hiram Sasser accused Lembo of abusing the power of his office.

It is surprising that a government would still be so bold as to engage in clearly unconstitutional religious viewpoint discrimination, Sasser told me. He is abusing his office by inappropriately using it to advance his own personal agenda and it is really disturbing.

And to be perfectly blunt, these types of attacks by far-left bureaucrats are why Donald Trump won the presidency.

"This issue ... really brings into focus why a lot of people supported Donald Trump as opposed to Hillary Clinton," Hamilton told OneNewsNow. People feared the federal government  more specifically the IRS or the Department of Justice  being used as means of cultural and societal intimidation."

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*Its not exactly clear why Buzzfeed chose to publicly shame Fixer Upper hosts Chip and Joanna Gaines. Nor do we know why the online publication attacked the Christian couples church.

Maybe author Kate Aurthur got a speeding ticket while driving through Waco, Texas? Or maybe she dislikes shiplap? Or perhaps Buzzfeed simply employs virulent, anti-Christian bigots?

Click here for a free subscription to Todds newsletter: a must-read for Conservatives!

We may never know. Regardless, their ugly attack on the Gaines family and Antioch Community Church in Waco cannot be undone.

The real shame is not on the Gaines family, but on this media inquisition of Christianity, National Religious Broadcasters president Jerry A. Johnson told me.

Earlier this week, Buzzfeed raised questions about the Gaines' family church and its position on same-sex marriage.

So lets cut to the chase  is Antioch Community Church anti-gay?

Absolutely not, Pastor Siebert told me in an exclusive interview. We are not only not anti-gay, but we are pro-helping people in their journey to find out who God is and who He has made them to be.

The pastor told me he was surprised by the controversy surrounding a message he delivered more than a year ago pointing out that people from all different walks of life attend the church.

For us  our heart has always been to love Jesus, preach the word of God and help people in their journey, he said.



Click here to continue reading Todd Starnes column at ToddStarnes.com.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*The congregation of Lamington Presbyterian Church gave President-elect Donald Trump a standing ovation following the Sunday morning worship service.

The New York Post reports that worshippers told Trump to "follow his heart."

I just told him that I hope he understands the country supports him and not to be distracted by the noise, said church member Jim Tiesei.

Click here to get Todd's FREE newsletter: Conservative news you can TRUST!

The enthusiastic welcome was far different than the one Vice President-elect Mike Pence received at "Hamilton the Musical." Pence was heckled and then publicly shamed by the cast.

The Post reported that Trump's ovation at the church was "rousing."

Click here to continue reading Todd Starnes' column on ToddStarnes.com.



Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*Theres trouble brewing in Lincoln, Nebraska where students at a public school were told they could not fly the American flag  because it might spark some sort of post-election backlash.

Several of my astute readers sent me a link to a story in the pages of the Lincoln Journal Star titled, Safety concerns prompt school to ask students to not fly flags.

Click here to get a free subscription to Todds Newsletter: Common Sense Conservative Commentary!

On Veterans Day someone had pulled Old Glory off a flagpole on a students pickup truck at The Career Academy. Its unclear who was responsible for desecrating the flag, but the owner of the truck was concerned about a potentially disruptive climate.

The school district said that prompted the schools administrators to review the situation and make a determination that there would be potential for continued disruption.

The Journal Star reported that administrators asked students not to fly the flag out of an abundance of caution.

Click here to get Todds latest book  God Less America  a tribute to gun-toting, Bible-clingers!

Although, they did say they would consider letting students fly the flags on another appropriate day, such as Presidents Day, the newspaper reported.

As you might imagine, the flag ban did not go over very well in Lincoln  home to many God-loving patriots.

We have heard from many students, families and community members who were concerned about taking away those rights, the district said.

The outrage prompted the school district to hold a press conference on Nov. 17 to retract the ban and apologize.

We want to make this very clear: Lincoln Public Schools students are free to fly their flags on their cars, and leave the flags on their vehicles during the school day, the district said in a prepared statement.

They also reminded the general public of their patriotic bona fides  from reciting the Pledge of Allegiance to promoting Veterans Day.

LPS believes in the teaching of the tenets of the Constitution and all it represents, they stated.

Hindsight would suggest that this could have been handled in a different way and we are amending our original decision, the district said. We respect the right for students to display their flags. We should not have asked our students to remove them.

The district went on to say their flag ban could easily and understandably have been misinterpreted as infringing on the rights of freedom of expression and speech.

There was no misinterpretation --- because it was an infringement  a shameful infringement.

Instead of cracking down on American patriotism, how about cracking down on people who desecrate the American flag? How about more discipline and less capitulation? Is that too much to ask from a public school these days?

Then again, this is the same school district that had a problem with teachers calling children boys and girls. They wanted the teachers to use more gender inclusive language.

I wonder what the gender inclusive word for stupid is  because theres a whole mess of it in the public education system.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*An Oregon bureaucrat who waged political jihad against the owners of a Christian bakery was given the heave-ho by voters.

Labor Commissioner Brad Avakian was defeated by Republican Dennis Richardson in his bid to be Secretary of State.

Click here to join Todds American Dispatch: a must-read for Conservatives!

It's the first time a Republican has been elected to a statewide office in Oregon since 2002.

So consider this  Avakian was too liberal for what is arguably one of the most liberal states in the country.

Avakian, a passionate advocate for the LGBTQIA crowd, was thrust into the national spotlight when he declared war on a Christian bakery in 2013.

Aaron and Melissa Klein, the owners of Sweet Cakes By Melissa, declined to make a wedding cake for a lesbian couples ceremony.

The Kleins, who are devout Christians, explained that participating in a same-sex wedding would violate their deeply-held religious beliefs.

Click here to get your Im Politically Incorrect t-shirt!

Avakian launched a very public and very ugly assault on the Klein family  alleging they had discriminated about the lesbian couple.

They faced boycotts and picket lines and other wedding vendors were threatened with similar action if they did business with Sweet Cakes.

The familys young children received death threats and the stores social networking platforms were overrun by militant LGBT activists posting obscene and profane messages.

The Kleins were eventually ordered to pay $135,000 in emotional damages to the lesbians.

They were also forced to shutter their retail location  and eventually shut down their family bakery.

The goal is never to shut down a business. The goal is to rehabilitate, Avakian told The Oregonian in 2013.

Avakian was just as ruthless in his attacks on a Portland bar that turned away transgender patrons. The owner of the Twilight Room Annex did not want his establishment to be known as a gay bar.

The bar was slapped with a $400,000 judgment and was forced to shut down.

The Kleins are represented by First Liberty Institute, one of the nations most prominent religious liberty law firms. They are appealing the fines levied by Avakians office.

We will never know if Mr. Avakians unprecedented attack on religious liberty played a role, but we are hopeful that there is a path toward justice, attorney Hiram Sasser told me. Everyones beliefs deserve respect and tolerance even if some disagree with those beliefs.

Sasser said Americans should have the freedom to live according to their own conscience without the force of government being used to punish those who disagree with government officials like Avakian.

Perhaps this will serve as a point of reflection for government leaders that the people of Oregon and indeed most Americans believe in tolerance and respect and the dignity of each person to live their lives according to the dictates of their own consciences, Sasser said.

Voters saw Avakian for who he really was  an anti-Christian bully with no regard for the U.S. Constitution.

Nobody likes a bully  especially a liberal bully.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*Sen. Bob Corker (R-TN) was hiking in the woods near his home in Chattanooga  enjoying the outdoors  minding his business  when he was accosted by a foul-mouthed anti-Donald Trump Biology professor.

University of the South professor David Haskell and several companions were hiking on Stringers Ridge when they came upon Sen. Corker (who happened to be traveling alone).

Click here to join Todds American Dispatch: a must-read for Conservatives!

Professor Haskell began shouting at Senator Corker in a profanity-laced tirade while pointing a finger in his face and told the senator that he was embarrassed to live in a state where the citizens voted to overwhelming elect Donald Trump, Corker spokesperson Micah Johnson said in statement.

Haskell, who was a Pulitzer Price nonfiction finalist, admitted in a blog post that he had a potty-mouth, but denied he was overly aggressive.

Im afraid my profanity was no match for that of Mr. Trump and I showed no aggression, he wrote. Anger, for sure, but I stood at a respectful distance and listened to Corker. First Amendment speech is not aggression, its a right. Grabbing women, punishing them for abortions, egging on rallies toward violence: now thats aggression.



To continue reading Todd Starnes column, click here.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*The other day one of my radio listeners sent me a link to a brilliant television commercial that was created by Food City.

Food City sells Hamburger Helper and Doritos and Dukes Mayonnaise to folks who live in Georgia, Kentucky, North Carolina and Virginia.

Click here to join Todds Newsletter: a must-read for conservatives!

But the supermarkets television commercial had nothing to do with selling groceries  it was about Veterans Day.

And folks  it was one of the most poignant, heart-felt commercials Ive ever seen.

Its all about bringing families together, said company spokesman Kevin Stafford. Its God. Its country. Its family  and then its Food City.

These days, there arent too many big companies left across the fruited plain that do business like that  which makes Food Citys Veterans Day commercial all the more intriguing.

The country and what it means is extremely important to our company, Mr. Stafford said.

Its true. Thats why the Star-Spangled Banner proudly waves outside every single store.

Food City founder Jack Smith served in the Navy and the company has always had a deep appreciation and admiration for the men and women who serve in the Armed Forces.

That appreciation is especially evident when they open a new grocery store.

At every store opening we have a flag raising ceremony, Mr. Stafford said.

Its quite a grand affair with marching bands and high school choirs and service members and even folks from the local VFW hall.

We open up with a prayer and do the Pledge of Allegiance and we sing the National Anthem and the service members do the flag raising, he said.

If the National Football League wants to reverse that massive ratings drop, maybe they should consider giving the folks at Food City a call.

All that to say  Food City put together a deeply moving tribute that honors our veterans and their families.

The one-minute video tells the story of a young service member who returns home and finds his grandfather standing in front of the house dressed in uniform  greeting him with a salute.

There was originally a voice over  but they decided to just let the images tell the story, Mr. Stafford said. No words were needed. It says everything you need to know without saying a word.

And folks  if you dont get a little misty-eyed by the end of the commercial  well  youre just not right with the Lord!

Weve seen it hundreds of times and every single time we get chills, Mr. Stafford said. Its a beautiful spot.

I sure wish I could buy Jimmy Dean sausage and Martha White Flour from Food City  but the nearest store thats close to where I live in Brooklyn is about 700 miles away. Thats too bad.

Thank you, Food City  for honoring the brave men and women of the United States Armed Forces.

Yall are mighty good people. Heres why: They love America. They love our veterans. And theyll even take your groceries out to your pickup truck.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*Our long national nightmare is over and the Republic has been saved.

Im originally from the Deep South. My father, who passed away in 2006, was a blue-collar worker. We lived paycheck-to-paycheck. We went to church on Sunday. We lived a quiet life  just like many families in so-called Fly-Over Country.

Click here to join Todds Newsletter: Common Sense Conservative Commentary!

My father was a member of the Silent Majority and had he been alive he wouldve cast his vote for Donald J. Trump.

Ive lived in New York City for more than a decade now  and Ive seen firsthand the contempt for country folks like my father  people from rural America.

As I wrote in my book, God Less America, I feel like a Duck Dynasty guy living in a Miley Cyrus world  where right is wrong, wrong is right  its as if our values have been turned upside down.

President Obama called us bitter. He said we were the kinds of people who cling to guns and religion.

Time and time again he stood on foreign soil and apologized for our nation. And to this day it remains unclear whether he believes the United States is the most exceptional nation on Earth.

Hillary Clinton called us deplorable  irredeemable.

"To just be grossly generalistic, you can put half of Trump supporters into what I call the 'basket of deplorables. Right? Racist, sexist, homophobic, xenophobic, Islamophobic, you name it."

The only thing deplorable was Hillary Clinton's basket of grossly generalistic comments.

"And unfortunately, there are people like that and he has lifted them up," she went on to say. "He has given voice to their websites that used to only have 11,000 people, now have 11 million. He tweets and retweets offensive, hateful, mean-spirited rhetoric."

Her campaign portrayed Conservative Catholicism as a bastardization of the faith and seemed to imply that Evangelicals are a bunch of impoverished country bumpkins.

Click here to get Todds latest book  God Less America  a tribute to gun-toting, Bible-clingers!

We were mocked by Hollywood and dismissed by academics. We were marginalized by the media  bullied and belittled by sex and gender revolutionaries.

But all that changed on Election Day  when Donald Trump became a champion for the Silent Majority. He gave us a voice. And now the Silent Majority is silent no more.

We the People have decided that its time to drain the swamp.

Its time to restore traditional values. Its time to protect the Constitution. Its time to defend our sovereignty. Its time to save unborn babies.

Its time to stand up for the American working man and bring jobs back from China and Mexico. Its time to eradicate the scourge of ObamaCare.

And its time to hire the bricklayers so they can start building that giant wall.

The Deplorable Americans have spoken  and on the eighth day of November in the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Sixteen  we have decided to Make America Great Again.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*President Obama was in North Carolina the other day. He was dropping his "g's" and throwing around Southern slang like he was a slinging hash browns down at the Waffle House.

Click here to join Todd's American Dispatch: a must-read for conservatives!

He started off by talking about how much he "loves me some North Carolina."

Well, bless his pea-picking heart.

The president tossed out the word "holler" and then said it was time to get down to "bidness." Not business, but "bidness."

The White House seems to think all of us Southerners walk around talking like Boss Hogg from the "Dukes of Hazzard."

ELECTION SPECIAL: My latest book is 50% off the cover price! Click here to get your copy of "God Less America."

Hillary Clinton is just as bad -- she can turn on that Arkansas twang at the drop of a cast iron skillet.



To continue reading Todd Starnes column, click here.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*There's trouble brewing in Hidden Valley, America.

The nations most beloved salad dressing is under attack by a bunch of granola-eating, tree-hugging hipsters who forage artisanal beets sold on food trucks.

Click here to join Todds American Dispatch: a must-read for Conservatives!

Consider this recent headline from the pages of The Washington Post: Ranch dressing is whats wrong with America.

Columnist Ben Adler fired off an unhinged diatribe on Americas favorite salad dressing  calling it milk-rot and warning that it could destroy Planet Earth.

Its disgusting, the writer declared. It tastes like exactly what it is, which is milk thats halfway rotten. Why would anyone want to take something that they would throw out if they unexpectedly smelled it in their fridge and put that on their salad?

Ranch salad dressing can cover a multitude of transgressions  from bean sprouts to vegan egg salad. It makes everything go down easier.

Mr. Adler also has a problem with air conditioning, Hummers, and Pizza Huts new Grilled Cheese Stuffed Crust Pizza.

Defiling pizza by turning its crust into a fake grilled cheese sandwich, or by putting ranch dressing on it, is the culinary equivalent of setting your air conditioner to 62 degrees or driving a Hummer, he opined.

ELECTION SPECIAL: Get Todds latest book  God Less America for half-off!

The writer sounds like one of those pretentious fellows who putters around on a solar-powered Vespa, sipping kale smoothies from a Mason jar while ruminating on the musings of renowned climatologist Al Gore.

Putting Ranch on salad at least has a rationale: Many people dont appreciate vegetables and feel compelled to slather everything in processed fat. Fine, he wrote derisively. But why would anyone use it on French fries? Because deep-fried food isnt greasy and caloric enough? And putting it on pizza  a horrifying, common practice  is insane because pizza is already dripping with mozzarella.

Id bet good money this guy has a predesignated safe space.

Mr. Adler writes for Grist, an organization that fears a looming climate apocalypse. And if Im reading this correctly, he seems to believe Ranch salad dressing figures prominently in the End of Days.

Our vulgar extravagance is going to destroy the planet and starve the global poor, he warned. Unless we moderate our habits, we will run out of resources to feed the Earths 7 billion-and-growing population and cause massive climate disruption.

Hes even got a problem with organic, locally sourced beef.

But no matter where you raise the beef for your burger, its still less healthy and more carbon-intensive than vegetables  and thats before you put the Ranch dressing on the fries, he wrote.

I really dont understand the writers hostility towards Ranch salad dressing. Perhaps his mother bought the generic brand instead of Hidden Valley?

I could understand if it was Catalina or Paul Newmans Poppyseed Dressing. But Hidden Valley?

I believe their salad dressing makes the world a better place. Its a fine condiment  an American condiment.

Ranch salad dressing can cover a multitude of transgressions  from bean sprouts to vegan egg salad. It makes everything go down easier.

All things considered, maybe I should bring a bottle with me when I vote on Election Day.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*The pastor of a Texas megachurch said he was stunned when a government agent stopped him at a TSA checkpoint so his Bible could be inspected.

I couldnt believe it. I literally couldnt believe it, said Gene Lingerfelt, the pastor of Faith Christian Center in Arlington, Texas.

Click here to join Todds American Dispatch

The pastor and his wife were on their way to Cancun for vacation when he was stopped Monday in the TSA Pre-Check line for a bag check.

Brief aside: Your friendly neighborhood columnist has TSA Pre-check, too  and I cant tell you how many times Ive been pulled aside for additional screening. So now were literally getting charged to get manhandled by the TSA  although we do get to keep our shoes on.

At first, the pastor was not terribly surprised by the disruption.

That particular bag was filled with all of my cords  charger cords, computer power cords  in some airports like Heathrow  I always get stopped, he said.



To continue reading Todd Starnes column, click here.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*The Mainstream Media says Donald Trump and his supporters have hurt their feelings.

CNN's Wolf Blizter unloaded on Kellyanne Conway, Trump's campaign manager -- demanding that they stop heckling journalists.

Click here to subscribe to Todd's awesome podcast!

"He shouldn't be doing that," Blitzer said on CNN. "I mean, can you talk to him? And say to him, 'Mr. Trump, we only have a few days left, and these are hardworking young journalists, they deserve to have some security,' if you will, because of some of those Trump supporters out there, they get pretty nasty with what they're screaming at these young people."

Blitzer actually told her that some of the reporters are scared.

Well, boo-hoo and bless their hearts (as we say back in the South).

To continue reading Todd Starnes column, click here.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*A lay minister who is suing the Georgia Department of Public Health for religious discrimination has been ordered by the states attorney general to relinquish his sermons to the government, according to federal court documents.

Please produce a copy of your sermon notes and/or transcripts, Attorney General Samuel Olens wrote to attorneys representing Dr. Eric Walsh.

Click here to join Todds American Dispatch: a must-read for Conservatives!

Dr. Walsh said he will not comply with the request.

No government has the right to require a pastor to turn over his sermons, Walsh said. I cannot and will not give up my sermons unless I am forced to do so.

Walsh, a Seventh-day Adventist lay minister had been hired in May 2014 by as a District Health Director with the Georgia Department of Public Health. A week later, a government official asked him to submit copies of his sermons for review. He complied and two days later he was fired.

His attorneys said the government was curious about sermons Dr. Walsh delivered on health, marriage, sexuality, world religions, science and creationism. He also preached on what the Bible says regarding homosexuality.

He has since filed a federal lawsuit charging state officials with engaging in religious discrimination.

He was fired for something he said in a sermon, attorney Jeremy Dys told me. If the government is allowed to fire someone over what he said in his sermons, they can come after any of us for our beliefs on anything.

Dr. Walsh has assembled a powerhouse legal team comprised of Parks, Chesin & Walbert along with First Liberty Institute, one of the nations most prominent religious liberty law firms.

Its an incredible intrusion on the sanctity of the pulpit, Dys said. This is probably the most invasive reach into the pulpit by the state that Ive ever seen.

Neither the attorney general nor his communication director responded to telephone calls or email correspondence.

Dys said the governments request came as part of the process to build their case against his client. The request, he said, carries the same force of law as a subpoena.

Pastors and rabbis across the country  especially in the state of Georgia should be frightened that a state would demand all the sermon notes and transcripts of a pastor, he said. This is unprecedented.

It may be unprecedented, but is it illegal?

I think it is wrong for a state to demand that a pastor turn over his sermons at any time, Dys said. It was wrong for the state to ask Dr Walsh for his sermons as part of the job application and hiring process. It was wrong for them to turn around and fire him when they listened to those sermons. And it is wrong now for them to demand that he turn over all the sermons and sermon notes he ever produced going back to when he was 18 years old.

Family Research Council president Tony Perkins condemned the states demand calling it an alarming display of government intrusion into the sanctity of the church, pastors study and pulpit.

This is something that I would have expected to see in a communist country, not America, Perkins told me. Government scrutiny of speech in the pulpit is unconstitutional, and unconscionable.

He called on Gov. Nathan Deal, a Republican, to correct this egregious overreach of the state into church affairs.

Dr. Walsh also gained the support of Emir Caner, president of Truett-McConnell University, a Christian school based in Cleveland, Georgia.

A new era has come to our shores, a time where government finds it acceptable to suppress the freedom of religion even to the extent of requesting a ministers sermons, Caner said. As an ordained minister, I know that this is not merely an assault on the messenger, but on the very message of our Sacred Scriptures.

Caner correctly noted that the government seems to exclusively target one faith  biblical Christianity.

What the government fails to recognize is that ministers of the Gospel are not hirelings of the state, but ambassadors for our Lord, he said.

Dr. Walsh was catapulted into the national spotlight when he was invited to deliver the 2014 commencement address at Pasadena City College in California.

Walsh, who was then the director of the citys public health department, came under fierce scrutiny from LGBT activists and students after someone found online copies of his sermons. He backed out of the speaking engagement  but critics persisted and he was forced to resign his post  after reaching a financial settlement with the city.

Shortly afterwards, he applied for the position in Georgia.

The state of Georgia fired him for something he said in a sermon, Dys told me. Its almost like the state ransacking the pastors study trying to find evidence in a desperate attempt to justify their illegal behavior.

Dys said the attorney general could ask a judge to enforce their request. If Dr. Walsh still refused, he could face contempt of court.

No one in America should want a pastor being held in contempt for refusing to give up one of his sermons to the state of Georgia, he said.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*You probably know somebody like Jay Wells in your town.

Hes a hardworking family man. He goes to church on Sunday. He owns a small business. Hes an all-around good guy.

Click here to join Todds American Dispatch: A must-read for Conservatives!

And hes also become a national symbol for the complete and utter failure of President Obamas Affordable Care Act.

Mr. Wells, of Colquitt, Georgia, is facing a massive (and I do mean massive) increase in his monthly health insurance premiums, according to a letter he received from BlueCross BlueShield of Georgia.

Your current monthly premium is $711.83, read the letter. Starting in January, your monthly premium will be $1,872.17.

The sticker shock was shocking.

It was really tough to play the $700 per month, Mr. Wells told me. With this new increase, I dont see any way we can do that.

Join Christians across the nation at Todds annual Fall Getaway at The Cove. Click here for info!

BlueCross BlueShield explained that the insurance coverage he currently has wont be offered in 2017  so they found another plan to meet the needs of Mr. Wells, his wife and their three children.

This isnt a Marketplace plan, the letter read. This means you wont get any financial help lowering your monthly premium or out-of-pocket costs if you enroll in this plan.

And that doesnt even take into account the familys $5,000 deductible.

My goodness -- $1,800  thats a deal breaker, he said.

It could be a deal breaker for many American families.

The Department of Health and Human Services announced Monday that premiums for a midlevel benchmark plan will increase an average of 25 percent across 39 states served by the federally run online market. Some states could face even steeper increases.

And since many major national insurance carriers have scaled back their participation in ObamaCare, many American families will only be able to choose plans from a single insurer.

The letter we received stated the policy we had had been grandfathered in and all the grandfathered plans were eliminated due to ObamaCare mandates, Mr. Wells said.

Remember the promise made by President Obama?

If you like your health care plan, youll be able to keep your health care plan  period, he said.

Thats what he promised to folks like Jay Wells.

Mr. Wells liked his health care plan  but because of ObamaCare he wont be able to keep his healthcare plan.

In an Obama administration, well lower premiums by up to $2,500 for a typical family per year, he said.

But thanks to ObamaCare, the Wells familys premiums will increase by $13,200 per year.

Instead of delivering on his promises to the Wells family, the president handed them and the American people a wheel barrel full of Grade-A fertilizer.

That could be why the policy selected for Mr. Wells is called the POS 5500.

And if you think your insurance premiums are too expensive now, just watch what happens if Hillary Clinton gets the keys to White House.

Thats one of the reasons Mr. Wells plans on voting for Donald Trump on Election Day.

Ive been a lifelong Republican  never supported Trump  but certainly plan to vote for the Republican nominee, he told me. I think Mr. Trump has a good opportunity here to show this is a legitimate concern for people.

Regardless, fixing ObamaCare is not going to happen overnight.

Its going to be an absolute nightmare and its going to take some time to get this worked out but my goodness  weve got to do something, he said.

So before you cast your ballot on Election Day, take a long, hard look at your looming insurance premiums and ask yourself, Who can make Americas healthcare affordable again?

Mr. Wells has already figured out the answer to that question and he plans to vote accordingly.



Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*A patriotic, pre-game celebration honoring law enforcement and first responders at a high school football game has drawn the ire of the New Jersey chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union.

New Jerseys Middletown High School South saluted more than 100 police officers and military personnel on Oct. 21.

Click here to join Todds American Dispatch: a must-read for conservatives!

The celebration culminated with teenaged football players and police officers unfurling a massive American flag before singing the national anthem.

A star-spangled celebration, is how the Asbury Park Press described the festivities.

But the ACLU of New Jersey exploded with fury -- accusing organizers of sending an ominous, frightening message.

In a letter to school leaders, the ACLU-NJ and the local chapter of the NAACP said the school was using the salute to intimidate and ostracize people who express their views about systemic racism and social justice.

The controversy stems in part from some comments Middletown Police Deputy Chief Stephen Dollinger made to the Asbury Park Press.

He reportedly told the newspaper that the salute was prompted by the behavior of San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick.

Join Todd for his annual Fall Getaway at The Cove in Asheville, NC. Click here for more info!

Its okay to stand up for social justice, inequality and reform, he told the newspaper in advance of the football game. Its another thing to not stand up for the national anthem.

Dollinger later said his remarks had been twisted and the event had nothing to do with the disgraced NFL quarterback or Black Lives Matter.

I said we respect the rights of everybody to stand up for social justice and equality and reform, but we also respect our country and want to celebrate the first responders, the national anthem, he told the newspaper.

Regardless, the idea of honoring those who protect and serve rankled the ACLU and their minions.

The criticism the deputy police chief expressed for people who decline to stand for the national anthem in protest serves to erect walls between police and the communities they serve, said ACLU-NJ policy counsel Dianna Houenou.

The people police are sworn to protect and serve should not have to fear that the value officers assign to them is determined by the beliefs they hold, she added.

Ms. Houenou fails to understand that police officers will come to the aid of any citizen  even those who spit on the badge and those who despise the flag.

Jasmine Crenshaw, another ACLU lackey, raged over the deputy chiefs behavior.

The statements made by the deputy police chief and the events ostentatious show of power send an ominous, frightening message: that, as an official stance, law enforcement will not tolerate expressions acknowledging our nations history of unequal treatment and systematic oppression, Crenshaw said.

The magnitude of this event chills the belief that police should be held accountable when they abuse their power or discriminate against people of color, and pressures student athletes to act as props of the police, she added.

Well, I want to salute the deputy police chief. He should be commended, not condemned for honoring first responders and our veterans.

Ive grown extremely tired of these anti-American agitators who have hijacked our sporting events and turned them into platforms to spew their hatred for the red, white and blue.

Its a football game, folks  not a Million Man March.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*A Bible was removed from the waiting room of a Chillicothe Veteran Affairs Medical Center in Athens, Ohio after a veteran complained.

Our government is secular, and must remain secular, the unidentified veteran wrote.

Click here to join Todds American Dispatch: a must-read for Conservatives!

Mikey Weinstein, the founder of the Military Religious Freedom Foundation, fired off a letter to the medical center on behalf of the veteran  alleging that the presence of the Bible inside a government facility is a violation of the U.S. Constitution.

Weinstein, a fussy man with a strong aversion to our Lord, said the Bibles placement in the waiting room was illicit and unconstitutional.

In other words, Good Housekeeping is fine, but the Good Book is not.



To continue reading Todd Starnes column, click here.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*My column about the Millikin University football player who stood alone to honor the National Anthem struck a chord with our readers.

Click here to join Todd's American Dispatch; a must-read for Conservatives!

I was especially moved by a letter I received from a legal immigrant from India. He asks a very important question in his letter:

"I have not known any other country where some of the people desecrate their flag, disavow their national anthem or tear down their own country," he wrote.

Read and ponder his words -- and be glad that this Indian-American patriot is now one of our fellow countrymen.

Dear Mr. Starnes,

I am a first generation Naturalized American who was born in India. I am neither white (without white privilege), nor black or Hispanic (not a victim either), I am just a person who came to a land of opportunity with a dream. I have traveled some in this world and to the best of my knowledge I have not known of any other country where some of the people desecrate their flag, disavow their National Anthem or tear down their own country. If I am wrong please straighten me out. BUT if I am right, then please address how do we expect any other country to respect ours when we (under the "excuse" of freedom of speech) do not respect it ourselves.

When I became a US citizen, I took an oath denouncing my allegiance to my old country and even agreed to take up arms against my former country if asked to by the USA. Please check the verbiage of the oath these days but do oaths mean nothing anymore?

To continue reading Todd Starnes column on ToddStarnes.com, click here.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*The young men who attend St. Johns Northwestern Military Academy in Wisconsin know the names of the fallen.

Their names are recited every spring -- young men, alumni, who gave their lives defending America.

Click here to join Todds American Dispatch: a must-read for Conservatives!

Jack Albert, the president the military academy, believes the blood shed by his cadets make their campus sacred ground.

So when Albert learned that some of the high schools in their athletic conference were allowing students to disrespect the National Anthem, he decided to draw a line in the sand.

To dishonor those men and their families by permitting any disrespect of the country they defended, especially on the Academys time honored fields of friendly strife, is in my opinion, unacceptable, Albert wrote in a letter to parents and alumni.

It is our expectation when teams visit our campus, proper etiquette and respect is rendered to the nations colors and the national anthem, he added.

To continue reading Todd Starnes' column on ToddStarnes.com, click here.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*After watching Tuesday nights vice presidential debate, its pretty evident why the Democratic Partys official symbol is a jackass.

Sen. Tim Kaine was rude, condescending and the man would simply not stop interrupting Gov. Mike Pence.

Click here to join Todds American Dispatch: a must-read for Conservatives!

He even had the gall to butt into the Indiana governor's poignant comments about the September 11th, 2001 terrorist attacks.



The Republican National Committee accused Kaine of interrupting Pence 72 times  and theyve got the video to back up their claims.

To continue reading Todd Starnes' column on ToddStarnes.com, click here.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*Jesus just got kicked out of public schools in Henry County, Georgia.

The school district fired off a directive to school administrators ordering them to eradicate anything remotely religious from all public school buildings.

Click here to join Todds American Dispatch: a must-read for Conservatives!

One of my readers sent me a copy of the directive from the Henry County School District that was relayed to the staff at East Lake Elementary School.

You are hereby directed to remove all items which contain religious symbols, such as crosses, printed bibles, angels, bible verses, printed prayers, and biblical quotations from the common areas, hallways, classrooms, and office of East Lake Elementary School, the edict read.

Furtherreligious and biblical references should not be included in notes to parents, email signature lines, or any other correspondence sent on behalf of East Lake Elementary School, the edict continued.

But the Henry County School District wasnt quite finished with their orders to eradicate religion from the school house.

Finally, please remember that all references to holiday parties should comply with the Henry County School Districts Policy, Procedure and Practices for Holidays, the edict concluded.

Something tells me there wont be any Nativity Scenes in Henry County public schools.

District spokesman J.D. Hardin confirmed the authenticity of the directive  sent to administrators on Monday.

It was not intended as something that was supposed to be shared or put out with public consumption, he told me. It was more of a directive for our administrators to remind their employees of this particular law that is in pace as dictated by the federal government.

Mr. Hardin seems to think the U.S. Constitution mandates that teachers must voluntarily relinquish their rights at the school house door.

The Establishment Clause stipulates that the government may not promote or affiliate itself with any religious doctrine or organization, he said. Henry County Schools is a government entity.

Mr. Hardin was stressed that the directive covers all religions  but its pretty clear only one was being targeted.

The edict made no mention of the Koran or prayer rugs. Im just trying to keep it real, folks.

The school district will still allow teachers to wear religious jewelry  so long as its not overt or way out there.

They can wear things that are small trinkets, Mr. Hardin explained.

Bibles and Bible verses are a big no-no.

They cannot have a Bible sitting on top of their desk or they cannot have some other type of religious doctrine sitting on their desk, he said.

So what about the library? Would they also ban the Bible from the library?

Thats a good question, Mr. Hardin said. I dont know that we have any Bibles within our libraries.

Now, if this is beginning to sound like some sort of Soviet-era religious cleansing, you arent alone.

Edicts like this remind me of how my wife used to live under the persecution of Communism, how they used to stifle any religious expression whatsoever, said Dr. Emir Caner, president of Truett-McConnell University.

Truett-McConnell is a Christian university based in north Georgia --- known for its education degree.

It seems like the school system wishes to eradicate any form of religious expression except for their own atheist and secular views, Caner told me.

He wondered if the district would forbid young Jewish men from wearing yarmulkes or young Muslim women from wearing hijabs.

Or are they simply targeting Christians and discriminating against them, he asked.

So how is Truett-McConnell preparing its education students to teach in public school classrooms that are hostile to Christianity?

We are preparing educators with a biblical worldview to love your neighbor as yourself, to esteem others better than themselves, he said. But perhaps a secularist will outlaw that one day as well.

And if they do?

If they do, our students know to stand for Christ and not culture  regardless of the consequences, he replied.



Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*East Carolina University just had a Come to Jesus moment with a group of perpetually-offended, self-entitled marching band members who disgraced America during last Saturdays football game.

Click here to join Todd's American Dispatch: a must-read for Conservatives!

At least 19 members of the Marching Pirates either took a knee or refused to play during the playing of the National Anthem. Click here to read the original story.

North Carolina fans reacted strongly  booing and heckling the band throughout the game. According to local news reports, the band was escorted from the field by security.

ECU Chancellor Cecil Station defended the students actions  calling it a part of civil discourse.

To continue reading Todds column on ToddStarnes.com, click here.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*In 2013 a small family bakery in Northwestern Oregon refused to make a cake for a lesbian wedding.

The owners of Sweet Cakes by Melissa had no idea that their decision to follow the teachings of their Christian faith would lead to a multi-year legal battle. Its a battle still being waged.

Click here to join Todd's American Dispatch: a must-read for Conservatives!

Aaron and Melissa Klein were eventually punished by the state of Oregon. -- The couple was fined $135,000 for refusing to participate in the lesbian wedding event.

It was the price they had to pay for refusing to violate their conscience.

They also made the painful decision to close their beloved bakery  for good.

The left-wing bigots and bullies finally got their pound of cake.

The Kleins made the announcement on the now-shuttered shops Facebook page.

The Kleins closed their business months ago and simply now updated their page to reflect that, said Hiram Sasser, an attorney for First Liberty Institute.

First Liberty is one of the nations most prestigious law firms handling religious liberty cases.

We are continuing our appeal and look forward to achieving justice for them and all people of faith who may find themselves in similar circumstances in the future, Sasser told me.

To be clear, Aaron and Melissa Klein did not go looking to engage in a fight with the LGBT community. The fight came to them and to their business.

Since that day more than three years ago, the Kleins have faced unrelenting attacks from the LGBT community. Their business was boycotted. They were bullied. Their children received death threats.

The Kleins were literally run out of business by an anti-Christian mob.

It's hard to believe that something like this could happen in the land of the free, the home of the brave.

But we live in a nation that pledges its allegiance to the Rainbow flag  a nation where gay rights now trump everyone elses rights.

Todd Starnes is host of Fox News & Commentary, heard on hundreds of radio stations. His latest book is The Deplorables Guide to Making America Great Again. Follow Todd on Twitter @ToddStarnes and find him on Facebook.

*SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

MELBOURNE, FL  Despite the unprecedented negative media coverage, President Donald Trumps supporters are as enthusiastic as ever.

Saturdays rally at the Melbourne-Orlando International Airport was proof of that.

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

Trump returned to the site where he held one of many rallies in the Sunshine State  but this time as President of the United States. He was accompanied by his wife, first lady Melania Trump, before a crowd of at least 9,000 and another few hundred watching the rally on big screen televisions assembled outside the hangar on the airport grounds.

All attendees now in the AeroMod hangar for the @realDonaldTrump rally. Total attendees at event = 9,000.  Melbourne Police (@MelbournePolice) February 18, 2017

At the rally were some of the familiar elements of Trumps campaign rallies, including YouTube supporters Diamond and Silk, chants of lock her up and CNN sucks, and Lee Greenwoods Proud To Be An American blaring on the loudspeakers as Trump made his appearance.

After being introduced by the first lady, who recited the Lords Prayer, Trump boasted about his administrations early progress and reiterated what is motivating his policies.

Its now been one month since my inauguration, Trump said. And I am here to tell you about our incredible progress in making America great again. And Im also here to tell you about our plans for the future. And theyre big, and theyre bold, and its what our country is all about. Believe me. Im here because I want to be among my friends and among the people.

Trump remarks included a bigger focus on the dishonest press, whom he said were part of the opposition to his efforts to make America great again. He said to raucous cheers:

I also want to speak to you without the filter of the fake news. The dishonest media, which has published one false story after another, with no sources, even though they pretend they have them. They make them up in many cases. They just dont want to report the truth. And theyve been calling us wrong now for two years. They dont get it. But theyre starting to get it. I can tell you that. Theyve become a big part of the problem. They are part of the corrupt system.

The president maintained he wasnt the first commander-in-chief to fight back against the media and vowed not to allow the media to get away with their lies. He went on to say:

Thomas Jefferson, Andrew Jackson, and Abraham Lincoln, and many of our greatest presidents fought with the media and called them out oftentimes on their lies. When the media lies to people, I will never, ever let them get away with it. I will do whatever I can that they dont get away with it. They have their own agenda. And their agenda is not your agenda. In fact, when Thomas Jefferson said, Nothing can be believed which is seen in a newspaper. Truth itself, he said, becomes suspicious by being put into that polluted vehicle. That was June 14  my birthday  1807.

But despite all their lies, misrepresentations, and false stories, they could not defeat us in the primaries, he added. And they could not defeat us in the general election. And we will continue to expose them for what they are. And most importantly, we will continue to win, win, win. We are not going to let the fake news tell us what to do, how to live, or what to believe. We are free and independent people. And we will make our own choices.

Trumps remarks on immigration and trade were consistent with his America first campaign rhetoric, including the threat of a border tax on products built by companies that moved their manufacturing facilitiesfrom the United States to another country. He said:

You want us to enforce our immigration laws, and to defend our borders. You want fair trade deals and a level playing field. We dont have a level playing field. Because you understand that when American workers win, America as a country wins and wins big. And every country over the last long period of time has been taking advantage of the stupidity of our politicians. Its not going to happen any longer. You want lower taxes, less regulation, millions of new jobs and more products stamped with those beautiful, beautiful words, Made in the USA. You want to make it easier for companies to do business in America, and harder for companies to leave. We dont want companies saying everybodys fired, were moving to another country, were going to make the products, sell it across the border. And isnt that wonderful? Not going to happen anymore. Were going to have strong borders. And when they want to sell that product back across our border, theyre going to pay a 35 percent tax. And you know what? Theyre never going to leave. They will never, ever leave.

On trade, Trump reminded attendees of fulfilling his campaign promise to withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and double-down on his pledge to have better trade deals and to take on nations that manipulate their currencies. He said:

I followed through on my promise to withdraw from the job-killing disaster known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership, TPP. We have just terminated our relationship to it. Were going to have tremendous trade deals all over the world. But theyre going to be bilateral, or as we would say, one-on-one. None of these deals where we get caught in quicksand, where we get mired in, and we cant do anything about it. Like, by the way, NAFTA and so many others. And my administration has begun plans to crack down on foreign cheating and currency manipulation, which is killing our companies and really, really hurting our workers. Were going to end it.

Trump noted the progress he had made in the early days of his presidency regarding the Dakota and Keystone pipelines, which he said will be constructed with pipe made in the United States. He reported to cheers:

Within a few days of taking the oath of office, Ive taken steps to begin the construction of Keystone and the Dakota Access pipeline. Anywhere from 30,000 to 40,000 jobs. And very importantly, as I was about to sign it, I said who makes the pipe? Who makes the pipe? Something this audience understands very well, right? Simple question. The lawyers put this very complex document in front. I said who makes the pipe? They said, Sir, it can be made anywhere. I said not anymore. So I put a little clause in the bottom. The pipe has to be made in the United States of America if were going to have pipelines.

In the middle of the rally, Trump invited Gene Huber onto the stage with him. Huber, of nearby Boynton Beach, FL, reportedly waited 13 hours and was first in line to get in the hangar for the rally.

Mr. President, thank you, sir, Huber said on stage. We the people, our movement is the reason why our president of the United States is standing here in front of us today. When President Trump, during the election, promised all these things that he was going to do for us, I knew he was going to do this for us.

A star is born, Trump declared after Hubers remarks.

Trumps remarks also included a vote of confidence for law enforcement. He said he had instructed his Justice Department to stand with police that were targets of violence.

I directed the Department of Justice to take a firm, firm stance to protect our cops, sheriffs, and police from crimes of violence against them, Trump said. We will work with our police, not against our police. Our police do a great job. And theyve never been troubled like theyre troubled now. Its very unfair whats happening. So we want to cherish our law enforcement. And we will always protect those who protect us.

Also in the realm of public safety, Trump touted efforts by Defense Secretary James Mattis to defeat ISIS and his instructions to the Pentagon to rebuild the military.

Ive also directed the defense community, headed by a general and now  well you know, he said it. He said it, he said.  and now Secretary Mad Dog Mattis to develop a plan to totally destroy ISIS. I have ordered the Department of Defense to begin plans for the great rebuilding of the United States military. We will pursue peace through strength.

Our military is badly depleted, Trump continued. You have planes in the military where the father flew them and now the son is flying it. Its so old. We make the best equipment anywhere in the world. Were going to start using our best and most modern equipment.

Trump slammed his Democratic opponents in the U.S. Senate for their obstruction, especially with regard to his cabinet appointments.

We have to tell the Democrats, because theyre doing the wrong thing for the American people, to stop their tactics of delay and obstruction and destruction, he said. They got to get on with it. My administration is also pushing ahead strongly with very historic tax reform. We are working to lower tax rates in the middle class, to reduce tax rates big league on businesses. And to make our tax code more fair and very simple for all Americans so its understandable by everyone. Senate Democrats should work with us to lower taxes and bring back our jobs. But the Democrats want to increase your taxes very, very substantially. Were not going to let that happen.

Watch  Rallygoers jeer media with chants of tell the truth!:

Before returning to Air Force One to depart on his trip back to Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, FL 120 miles to the south, Trump touted the movement that led to his election win, which he described as a reaction to global elites that have done very well for themselves at the expense of everyone else.

[They] have left working families with shrinking wages, Trump said. Really, I mean they are shrinking. Eighteen years ago many of you in this room made more money working one job than youre making right now working two and three jobs.

This is Trumps third consecutive weekend in the Sunshine State, but the first appearance open to the public.

Follow Jeff Poor on Twitter @jeff_poor

*SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

Following the news that MILO will deliver the keynote address at this years Conservative Political Action Committee (CPAC) conference, both leftists and establishment conservatives have taken to Twitter to express their outrage.

Freedom of speech and the protection of the First Amendment have become one of the defining issues for the conservative movement, especially amongst young people.

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

Based upon experiences on his nationwide college tour  where the events have aroused numerous violent protests by left-wing activists, attracting worldwide attention  the invitation is further confirmation that MILO is now the leading free speech advocate in Americas conservative movement.

The speech will, therefore, focus on issues of free speech and the state of modern American conservatism, but will also include MILOs experiences battling the leading left-wing movements and institutions, third-wave feminism, the media, ideologically driven college professors, Black Lives Matter, violent black bloc activists, and progressive elites in the entertainment industry.

Matt Schlapp, Chair of the American Conservative Union (ACU), the organizers of CPAC, announced MILOs speech on Twitter, stating that free speech includes hearing MILOs important perspective.

We think free speech includes hearing Milos important perspective. #CPAC2017 pic.twitter.com/ssDS6HVmLN  Matt Schlapp (@mschlapp) February 18, 2017

Leftists and establishment conservatives were not happy with the announcement. Conservative columnist Jonah Goldberg, editor of the National Review, an establishment publication that strongly opposed Donald Trumps campaign for the Republican nomination in 2015 and 2016, said the announcement was sad and disappointing.

Josh Hammer, a columnist for the Resurgent and Daily Wire, described the decision as an utter disgrace, adding that he would rather thirds at the buffet line behind Lena Dunham and Rosie ODonnell than watch Milo Yiannopoulos give [his] keynote address.

This is an utter disgrace for CPAC and the @ACUConservative that runs it. Abhorrent and shameful. https://t.co/o4IANurp5R  Josh Hammer (@josh_hammer) February 18, 2017

I rather get thirds at the buffet line behind Lena Dunham and Rosie O'Donnell than watch Milo Yiannopoulos give a keynote address at CPAC.  Josh Hammer (@josh_hammer) February 18, 2017

David Frum, a former speechwriter for President George W. Bush and current senior editor at The Atlantic, solemnly shared the news with his followers, describing it as kind of fated.

Milo Yiannopoulos to keynote CPAC. https://t.co/9xfBTbjFUE Which actually seems  kind of fated, really.  David Frum (@davidfrum) February 18, 2017

T. Becket Adams, a commentary writer for the Washington Examiner, took a similar tone.

i guess we shouldve seen this coming pic.twitter.com/fyzchYGfL0  T. Becket Adams (@BecketAdams) February 18, 2017

Jonathan Cook, the public relations representatives for Conservatives for Environmental Reform, confirmed he definitely wouldnt be attending the conference owing to his belief that CPAC is now embracing the alt-right.

With Milo and a Breitbart editor, CPAC is embracing the alt-right. I'm definitely not going now.  Jonathan Cook (@JonathanCookNC) February 18, 2017

Weekend editor at The Daily Beast Scott Bixby claimed the speech showed that CPAC is fine with [inviting] queer conservatives, but so long as they are neo-fascists.

Turns out that CPAC is fine with queer conservatives attending its conference! They just have to be neo-fascists! https://t.co/LYiAK8n5G7  Scott Bixby (@scottbix) February 18, 2017

Joe Perticone, a congressional reporter at the conservative Independent Journal, pointed out that MILOs keynote would give him more stage time than the Vice President.

Milo will get more stage time at CPAC than the Vice President. https://t.co/HHKETKvgda  Joe Perticone (@JoePerticone) February 18, 2017

Economics editor of British magazine The Week, Jeff Spross, said that the invitation showed CPAC being honest with us now about what they stand for.

Well at least they're being honest with us now about what they stand for. https://t.co/d74U6ZTGVQ  Jeff Spross (@jeffspross) February 18, 2017

The left-wing PAC One Wisconsin asked whether Speaker of the House Paul Ryan and state Governor Scott Walker would boycott the conference, or instead endorse this vermin.

Will @scottwalker & @speakerryan boycott CPAC this year, or are they officially endorsing this vermin? https://t.co/2isaJyzAYJ  One Wisconsin Now (@onewisconsinnow) February 18, 2017

Oh cpac was all the Daily Beast social media editor, Asawin Suebsaeng, could offer on the subject.

However, others disagreed with the backlash against MILO. Scott Greer, deputy editor of the Daily Caller, said MILO draws in people, adds energy, and creates debate.

Why the hell wouldn't CPAC invite Milo? He draws in people, adds energy, and creates debate. Everything a political conference wants  Scott Greer (@ScottMGreer) February 18, 2017

I'm old enough to remember the controversy of having Ron Paul at CPAC, even though he was a huge draw. Milo is no different  Scott Greer (@ScottMGreer) February 18, 2017

LGBT for Trump founder Chris Barron welcomed CPACs decision to invite MILO.

I 100% support CPAC's decision to have Milo speak. It is a complete repudiation of the bigoted approach of Al Cardenas.  Chris Barron (@ChrisRBarron) February 18, 2017

Harry Khachatrian, a writer for the Daily Wire and Rebel Media, also ridiculed the criticism.

Conservatives picked a gay immigrant to deliver CPAC's keynote address in their latest homophobic, xenophobic stunthttps://t.co/gTwsbx041q  Harry Khachatrian (@Harry1T6) February 18, 2017

Radio host Glenn Beck, a prominent critic of MILO and the changing direction of the conservative movement, is yet to comment on the decision.

You can follow Ben Kew on Facebook, on Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart.com

*5489220

What is a watershed assessment? Thats what Edwin Henry wondered after the EPA suddenly and unexpectedly appeared on his farm in Blackman. His environmental impact was simply widening his cows drinking pond on his own property. No animals were harmed in the making of that pondbut Mr. Henry sure was. The damage: hundreds of thousands of dollars in compliance costs that didnt help a single species or restore an acre of habitat. What a waste!

This happens every day across America. According to the Competitive Enterprise Institute, EPA compliance costs total more than three hundred billion dollars annually. More and more money is being spent in order to address smaller and smaller risks. The Office of Management and Budget rated the thirty least cost-effective regulationsthe EPA created seventeen of them.

Unlike our environment, the EPA cannot be saved. One deputy stole nearly a million dollars. Others were busted for misusing funds to hire public relations consultants. The non-partisan Government Accountability Office found that the EPA was showing favoritism in awarding grants, not managing the performance of grants, and misappropriating funds intended for environmental restoration. Stanford fellow Dr. Henry Miller referred to the EPA as relentlessly ideological, politicized, corrupt and incompetent.

The EPA hardly has an enviable record protecting the vulnerable. In Flint, The EPAs own inspector general confirmed that the EPA had the information and authority to act, but didnt. This bloated bureaucracy took longer than a baseball season to lift a finger to help people who were being poisoned by corroded pipes and lead-filled water. The U.S. Commission on Human Rights issued a scathing report on the EPAs environmental justice failures, noting that the agency avoided pushing civil rights complaints alleging discriminationfor fear that the agency would lose such a case if challenged in court, even when real discrimination was evidenced. Martin Castro, chairman of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, put it even more bluntly when he said that the EPA has failed miserably in its mandate to protect communities of color from environmental hazards.

Ive filed legislation to abolish the EPA by the end of 2018. To date, it is the most frequently viewed bill on Congresss website. Our mission is to reimagine a modernized, more effective environmental protection paradigm, driven by commonsense national standards and well-resourced local enforcement.

The EPA budget is $8 billion. Much of this money filters through to states through joint programs, but far too much is spent on Washington-driven bureaucracy and endless studies. $27 million even goes to foreign governments, while environmental priorities at home languish.

As a former state legislator, I fought hard forand receiveda $1 billion state commitment to restore the Everglades. We will spend the money, but the greatest threat to some of our projects (such as improving water flow and protecting habitats) has been delays by the federal government.

I imagine what states like Florida could do with funding for real, tangible restoration projects. We could quickly and efficiently improve the environment, instead of fighting against a federal government that never budgets, never keeps its commitments, and occasionally even gets in the way.

In 1970, when the EPA was created, many states lacked the necessary technology for thorough environmental research. The growth of major research universities, as well as the widespread availability of economical testing technology, have down-streamed the ability to execute on environmental priorities. Now it is time to down-stream the money. States will be more sensitive to their own unique environmental concerns without having to waste time, money, and manpower on compliance with trivial or inapplicable laws.

Of course, my legislation does not eliminate national standards such as those in the Clean Air Act & Clean Water Act. Both of these important laws provide concurrent state jurisdiction, criminal penalty, injunctive relief & civil fines, and will stay in effect. Swift enforcement actions can be brought by U.S. Attorneys, state Attorneys General, and even private interest groups such as the Sierra Club or Everglades Foundation under existing, uninterrupted law. Essential EPA functions can be addressed by various agencies, such as Interior, Agriculture, Justice, Energy, and Health. After all, the EPA was pulled piecemeal from these sources less than fifty years ago.

We need a fresh start so states can deploy more efficient environmental strategies. While our natural treasures will always be worth saving, the EPA isnt. Theyve ignored congressional subpoenas, suffered mission-creep, and in the Gold King Mine, EPA workers botched inspections and released over a million gallons of liquid acid into the Animas river, turning it neon orange.

With a commitment to localized enforcement, rather than serving a sprawling bureaucracy, our states will be better stewards of our environment. With resources deployed directly into restoration projects, we can do more, and do it more quickly. And with a regulatory system that works, we can finally leave Mr. Henry and his cows alone.

Matt Gaetz serves the people of Floridas 1st congressional district in the United States House of Representatives.

*5487178

When President Donald Trump nominated Jeff Sessions to serve as our United States Attorney General, there was no doubt in my mind that he was an excellent and wise choice. Not only has he been my colleague in the Senate with whom I have partnered for 20 years on behalf of the people of Alabama, but Jeff has become a dear friend. When you work with someone day in and day out, you truly get to know that person well. When I think about Jeff as a person and as a leader, there is one word that comes to mind: integrity.

Before joining the Senate, Jeff began his distinguished career as a practicing attorney, served as Assistant United States Attorney for the Southern District of Alabama, and then served as the United States Attorney for Alabamas Southern District before ultimately becoming the Attorney General of Alabama. Throughout his time as a skilled attorney, prosecutor, and legislator, Jeff has a proven record of fighting to ensure that all Americans are treated fairly under the law.

There is no question that Jeff has the necessary qualifications to serve as our nations chief law enforcement officer. However, more than that, I believe that he is the right man for the job at the right time.

For eight years under President Obamas tenure in the White House, there were far too many times when the Administration blatantly disregarded the rule of law. Moreover, when it did so, the Department of Justice protected the political positions of the president instead of standing up for what is lawful.

The outcome of ignoring the laws of our land has been harmful for several reasons, one of the most damaging being that it has left the American people skeptical of their government. The integrity of our institutions and agencies is paramount, particularly when it comes to the Department of Justice. I believe that now is the time to restore the Departments integrity.

One serious example of the Obama Administration ignoring the rule of law is on the issue of sanctuary cities. Over the past few years, I repeatedly urged Attorney General Lynch to put an end to federal funding for municipalities that deliberately obstruct federal laws to remove illegal immigrants who have committed crimes. After the tragic death of Kathryn Steinle in San Francisco, it became even more critical for action to be taken against sanctuary cities that blatantly ignore federal immigration policies.

Jeff and I share the simple principle on what the federal governments policy towards sanctuary cities should be: local governments either follow the law and receive federal grant money, or protect criminal illegal immigrants with no federal assistance. America is a nation of laws, and the rule of law must be fully and fairly applied regardless of politics.

Meanwhile, more than 520,000 immigration cases are backlogged at the Departments Executive Office of Immigration Review, with an average of 907 days pending before the case is even heard by an Immigration Judge. Despite my efforts on the Appropriations Committee to increase federal funding to specifically hire more judges, it still takes the Department an average of 480 days to hire one judge, and sometimes as long as 698 days. I am confident that Jeff will streamline the hiring process and fill the 82 vacant judge positions that have languished for so long.

I know that Attorney General Jeff Sessions firmly respects the rule of law, and his leadership at the Department of Justice will be a much-needed, refreshing change for the American people. As the Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, and Science, I look forward to continuing to work together to enforce our existing immigration laws and to address many other issues critical to our nation.

Richard Shelby has been representing Alabama in the United States Senate since 1987.

*5488675

Much will be said over the next few days about President Donald Trumps 77-minute press conference. He responded to questions about ties to Vladimir Putins regime and growing perceptions of chaos inside the White House; and he had more fighting words for the media and the intelligence community. But one of the most important parts of his epic rant seems to have gone unnoticed. It happened when Trump unloaded on CNN reporter Jim Acosta for the tone of criticism hes been receiving from the press these past months, a tone that is influencing everyday interactions between seemingly normal Americans: The tone is such hatred such hatred and venom. I watch it, and Im amazed by it.

Trump, never much of wordsmith, nailed a change nobody is talking about. Thats because in 2017, the old adage that all politics is local has been replaced by a new one  that all politics are personal. In 2017, the traditional distractions from the realities of life like TV and social media are no escape  theyre bulging with political content  while day-to-day water cooler talk is more about bashing the President than the office boss.

For those in public life who are brave enough to voice support for Trump, their punishment is, as Trump said, brutal. First Daughter Ivankas brand has been dropped by Nordstroms, NFL icons Tom Brady and Bill Belichick have taken a beating for admitting their coziness with the President, and Uber is now a boycott target for failing to match Lyfts $1 million pro-immigrant ACLU donation and for its CEOs brief tenure on Trumps Economy Advisory Council.

The same thing is happening to anyone in private life who even dares to be neutral on Trump. The message is clear: if you dont hate Donald Trump, you are evil, racist, and ignorant. Liberals have doubled-down on labeling everyone who doesnt feel like they do as deplorables and continue to vilify those who see the world differently.

To be fair, Trump has given the country many reasons to be concerned. If you are worried about Russia, you know that. If you have disabilities or are of Mexican descent, you know that. And if you are a woman who has been harassed, a former POW, a member of a Gold Star family, or a Muslim, you have reason to feel personally offended by the President.

But instead of focusing their outrage on the Trump, liberal America, led by an overwhelmingly liberal press, has hurled volumes of anger at neighbors whose sin was to disagree politically. In so doing, liberals are the ones acting like despots. They are punishing people for using their rights to free thought and free speech (if used in support of the President) and by sending brigades of protesters to blow up opponents town halls. This campaign to silence dissent looks totalitarian and is doomed to fail.

The first reason its doomed is mathematical: Its numerically impossible for Democrats to ride Tea Party-style obstructionism back to power. Whereas the GOP in 2009 was a broken party spread out across 50 states, the modern Democratic Party is mostly confined to big cities on the coasts. Adding 5 million more Democratic voters in New York, California, and Massachusetts will do nothing to tilt the scales in Washington, D.C.; in fact, as long as liberals base their resistance on painting President Trump and his supporters as ignorant racists, we can probably expect it to have the opposite effect. According to some polls, this is already happening.

The second reason Democrats will continue to lose is rhetorical. In history, nobody has ever won an argument without having it. And right now, thats how the Left is dealing with Trumpism  by stopping the conversation, by forcing it out of public dialogue.

When you tell people in break rooms, bowling alleys, and golf games that anything Trump-adjacent is evil, you silence debate. Thats the venom Trump is talking about. But as a minority party at a historic low, Democrats badly need to have this argument with Republicans. They need to meet President Trump head-on to offer his supporters, many of whom voted for President Obama twice, a cogent alternative and a reason to vote for Democrats again.

Instead, the Left has used its control over airwaves and iPhones to amplify a message of intolerance pointed at the very same people it has to persuade. Trumpies, beware: we will find you, and when we do, we will destroy you. We will eviscerate you on Saturday Night Live, we will call you a bigot on your Facebook, and we will stop returning your text messages on weekends. In so doing, the liberal Revolutionary Guard has succeeded in crushing public dissent in every place but the one that matters most: the voting booth. And they will continue to lose there for the foreseeable future if they dont get smarter.

The most important thing Democrats can do today is to stop making politics so personal. They must realize that differences of opinion are not measures of moral or intellectual fitness but rather measures of life experience. In every day life, this means coming to grips with the fact that most people who voted for Trump did so in spite of his offensive statements, not because of them. They werent just deplorable human beings.

Second, whenever President Trump is in the wrong, there need to be some rules of engagement. Today, its a challenge to go through life without tripping your way into being labeled a racist. How does one buy the right shoes, use the right taxi service, and support the correct sports teams? And what about Elizabeth Warrens (D-MA) voters in Boston? Are they deplorable bigots for being fans of the Patriots? Where does one draw the line in making judgments? And if people do overstep it, what punishment fits the crime?

At his press conference, the President gave the room full of reporters some advice: You would do much better by being different. Most reporters dont believe that and are likely to keep on approaching Trump the way they have been. But Democrats would benefit from adopting that advice for themselves. If they want to win in 2018, 2020 and beyond, they should start being different. Venom against their neighbors isnt likely to take them where they want to go.

Alex Keeney is a former legislative aide to Republicans in the House of Representatives. He blogs at www.lacarpetbagger.com and can be reached at lacarpetbagger@gmail.com.

*5484061

Recently, the Ninth Circuit decides to ignore Supreme Court more than a half-century of Supreme Court precedent and require the United States to admit people from a list of countries that are either failed states (Somalia), or who in the midst of war (Syria), or who finance terrorists (Iran). The judges indicated that the Constitution forbids the government to discriminate based on religion, so that if the executive order does that, it is unconstitutional. The response of the government is that it does not discriminate because of religion.

The issue for the court is not one of wisdom  should the visa order have been vetted more carefully, drafted more narrowly, or allowed for more exceptions. We can agree that the suspension has flaws, but the issue for the judicial branch, as the Supreme Court has stated many times, is one of power, not wisdom. In granting visas admitting aliens, does the United States have the power to discriminate in a way that would violate the First Amendment if the issue did not include visas?

If we look at the decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court stretching many decades, there is one consistent answer, yes. That is surprising to many people only because they have not looked at the law. It is certainly true that the Supreme Court can change its mind, but to do that would require it to overrule a large number of cases. As for the Ninth Circuit, it has a tradition of ignoring Supreme Court precedent, so it is more difficult to predict what it will do.

Once aliens are here, they get all the constitutional rights of U.S. citizens, even if they came here illegally. But the situation is quite different when they are at the border seeking admission. Let us look at some of the cases.

In United States ex rel. Knauff v. Shaughnessy (1950), the United States excluded  without a hearing, without any due process the alien wife (war bride) of an American citizen solely because the Attorney General announced that her admission would be prejudicial to the interests of the United States. The Court agreed the Congressional statutory scheme was constitutional, it authorized such action, and the law excluded any judicial review. The citizen could not bring his wife into the country and could not find out why she was excluded. Whatever the rule may be concerning deportation of persons who have gained entry into the United States, it is not within the province of any court, unless expressly authorized by law, to review the determination of the political branch of the Government to exclude a given alien. It added, Whatever the procedure authorized by Congress is, it is due process as far as an alien denied entry is concerned.

Several years later, the Court decided Shaughnessy v. United States ex rel. Mezei (1953). Mezei, an alien immigrant, lawfully lived in the United States from 19231948 and then left for Hungary to visit his dying mother. On his return, armed with a visa issued by the American Consul in Budapest, he was denied entry on the basis of information of a confidential nature, the disclosure of which would be prejudicial to the public interest. The Attorney General argued that his continued exclusion of the alien without a hearing was constitutional. The Supreme Court agreed: It is true that aliens who have once passed through our gates, even illegally, may be expelled only after proceedings conforming to traditional notions of due process of law. But an alien on the threshold of initial entry stands on a different footing. The Attorney General permanently excluded the alien from the United States on undisclosed grounds. You dont like the decision? It is disquieting, but dont blame me: Im only the messenger.

If the issue goes to the Supreme Court would the ninth circuit be overturned? Yes No Completing this poll entitles you to Daily Caller news updates free of charge. You may opt out at anytime. You also agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use.

These cases focus on procedural due process, found in the Fifth Amendment. What of the First Amendment? Same result. A leading case is Kleindienst v. Mandel (1972). The Attorney General sought to deny a visa to an alien who supported the economic, international, and governmental doctrines of World communism. U.S. citizens argued that their First Amendment rights were abridged by the denial of Mandels request for a visa. The Court rejected the argument and said explicitly that it would not look at the reasons for the Executives exercise of discretion nor test it by balancing its justification against the First Amendment.

What if the United States discriminates because of sex? In Fiallo v. Bell (1977) the law granted an illegitimate child immigration preference by virtue of his relationship with his natural mother, but no preference to an illegitimate child seeking preference by virtue of his relationship with his natural father. So, the law discriminated based on sex and illegitimacy. The Court rejected the constitutional challenge.

The appellants argued that there was double-barreled discrimination, based on sex and illegitimacy  and the children had no control over the actions of their parents in conceiving them as illegitimates. Thus, they argued, the law violated the fundamental constitutional interests of United States citizens and permanent residents in a familial relationship. The Court rejected that argument as well. The appellants then argued the Court should intervene unless there is specifically and clearly perceived to pose a grave threat to the national security. The Court rejected that as well.

Ronald D. Rotunda is the Doy & Dee Henley Chair and Distinguished Professor of Jurisprudence, at Chapman University, Dale E. Fowler School of Law. He joined the faculty in 2008. Before that, he was University Professor and Professor of Law at George Mason U. and the Albert E. Jenner, Jr. Professor of Law, at the U. of Illinois. In 1973-74, he was assistant majority counsel for the Senate Watergate Committee. He is coauthor of a six-volume treatise on Constitutional Law, and a one-volume Treatise on Legal Ethics. His books and articles have been cited more than 2000 times by state and federal courts at every level, from trial courts to the U.S. Supreme Court, by law reviews, and by foreign courts in Europe, Africa, Asia, and South America.

*5484120

We clearly know how leftists with their notorious and incompetent attempts to solve problems usually make things much worse. Imagine if they were actually trying to damage the country!

They are.

With the resignation of General Michael Flynn as national security advisor for the Trump administration, youd think that would be met with applause by Democrats. No! Theyre telling us, this isnt over yet.

When a Democrat lies to cover up their mistakes, they usually receive a promotion. When a Republican makes a similar mistake, Democrats believe they should be destroyed. Remember when Susan Rice made the Sunday-show tour of lies about the video being the reason four Americans died in Benghazi? She was promoted to UN ambassador. After cheating in the Democrat primary, Debbie Wasserman-Schultz (D-FL) was promoted to a post in the Hillary Clinton presidential campaign.



I dont disagree with Flynns resignation; he should have. However, I am less concerned about his inappropriate call to Russia during the transition-period and thus more worried about his lack of judgment given that the media was so rampant on an alleged Trump-Russia connection.

Even more concerning is the fact that there are political hacks leaking classified information to the media from within the intelligence community. Why is the mainstream media ignoring this security threat?

Any misstep by Trump or his closest advisers is going to be met with the most harsh and vicious ridicule weve seen of any politician in years. The expectation-level of performance for former President Obama was low. For President Trump, its nothing short of expected perfection.

Democrats have only one agenda. Their agenda is to punish this nation, and its people, so that our government and economy becomes incapacitated. Their hope is to detach themselves from the cause of this intended pain so they can leverage themselves back into power. They are not concerned about culture, poverty, upward-mobility, education race-relations, healthcare, crime or drug addiction. If those issues are to improve, it must be while they are in power.

They are willing to create any amount of social damage, governmental disruption or injury to the citizenry in order to be validated and vindicated. In other words, if you voted for Trump, you are going to pay.



Democrats are generally driven solely by emotion. They have given no logical to many of their policies/positions including th e mid to long-term, negative consequences on them.

According to Rasmussen polling, the majority of our citizens agree with President Trump and approves of his performance thus far. However, most conservatives are not willing to engage in the conflict in order to silence the leftists distractions, hysteria and troublemaking.

The silent majority that effectively elected Trump have gone back to their shadows in silence.



We are on the brink of a disaster. An epic disruption stemming from economic catastrophe, terrorist attack, cultural collapse or even a war could occur while our government is in polarized in political turmoil.

Instead of focusing on finding bipartisan agreement and civil debate, Democrats seem engaged into the radical world of destroying anyone who affiliates or publicly approves of Trump.

There have been recent boycotts against Under Armour because its CEO make positive statements about Pres. Trump calling him an asset. Theres a boycott effort against L.L. Bean because one of the fifty family members (with an ownership interest in the company) spoke positively, publicly, about Trump. The list keeps growing.

During the Atty. Gen. Jeff sessions confirmation hearings, South Carolina Sen. Tim Scott read a number of nasty tweets calling him a disgrace to African-Americans, the N-word and uncle Tom Scott to name a few.

Why can we not simply disagree with each other and debate our logical positions without demeaning and abusing our opposition?

Regretfully, the answer is simple. Many Democrats have arrived at their beliefs because of a long pattern of avoiding reality and accountability. Their unfettered emotional platform has gone unchallenged for such a long time they have lost all ability to be cognitive, reasonable or logical.

It is my fear that the chaos is going to be so tremendous that the only choices will be the complete self-destruction (re: violence, anarchy, civil unrest, embarrassment) of liberals or Trump will completely fail. Republicans in our house and senate must support him or he will be doomed and so will our causes.



President Trump should be addressing the nation frequently to address our citizenry and to penetrate the clutter of fakenews, false outrage, emotional hysteria and a leftist media.

Patriotic Americans who desire was best for our country should resist anyone engaging in vile, violent and vicious rhetoric or actions by demanding the truth be told and that violent offenders be arrested.



Conservatism can prevail by focusing on helping people culturally, economically and socially. As more and more people begin to realize upward mobility and the American dream, Democrats desperation will be seen as nothing more than the deceit it is.

At times, we will question Trump and many in his administration.

We shouldnt be focused on defeating the Democrats but more so on winning as a nation  which will effectively deliver the win by helping people who need it most.

Many Democrats simply want you to suffer as a Trump-supporter and they will stop at nothing to see that that happens.

We stop this anarchy by solving this countrys problems. We dont punch first, but we counter punch harder then we get punched.

Im worried for our future, not because of the Democrats false outrage, hysteria and deceit, or the pain they intend on bringing. My fear is the Republican Party, which has thus far has shown that it cannot support Trump unconditionally and forge legislation to repair the damage of the past decade.

Where is the legislation they promised us for delivering them the power of three branches of government? If it were present, the fight would be over policy not people.

*F**k Bono: Liberals Get VICIOUS Over U2 Singers Meeting With Mike Pence!

World famous singer Paul Hewson, who you may better know by his stage name Bono, is a real honest broker. The man has surprised conservatives in the past by his issue-oriented goals, and not so much his political ones.

The man has previously stated that he is a fan or what America has to offer the world, and has been a leading figure in fighting against AIDS for the last couple decades, and shows his compassion not with tweets, protests, or grandstandingLike so many on the left, but instead has lead with action.

Needless to say, Im come to have a lot of respect for the man, even if I dont agree on every issue. Truly sacrificing your time, effort, and means to help others is a worthy and respectable calling in life.

Bono recently met with Vice President Mike Pence during a security conference in Germany on Saturday  and this caused a totally unforgiving meltdown from the self-righteous left:



Bono would shake hand with The Devil https://t.co/pRzQ38YzkY  Adrian The_Kew_Tour (@Adriankewmutu) February 18, 2017



Bono praising Pence for supporting HIV meds in Africa ignores his responsibility for the explosion of HIV in Indiana through program cuts  D Gilmore-Kavanagh (@DrDeclanK) February 18, 2017

The Hill had the story of what took place between the two men:

According to a pool report, the two men shared an exchange about the 2003 passage of the Presidents Emergency Plan For AIDS Relief and its 2008 renewal, which Pence advocated for as an Indiana congressman.

Twice on the House floor you defended that. Thats how we know you, Bono, who has been a vocal proponent of the fight against AIDS, told Pence.

And we really appreciate it, he added.

Like I said before, not everything Bono says or believes is agreeable, and no one should have to agree with anyone else lockstep no matter whatThats what political parties are forBut he has been critical of President Trump in the past. Thats fine, because so have I. Although saying to PBS host Charlie Rose in September that the President is potentially the worst idea that ever happened to America, may be a bit over the top.

*Georgetowns Prof. Jonathan Brown Supports Islamic Slavery and Rape.

In this new Jamie Glazov Moment, Jamie discusses Georgetowns Prof. Jonathan Brown Supports Islamic Slavery and Rape, asking:where is the media outrage and the feminist protests?

Dont miss it!



And make sure to watch Jamie say: Thank You President Trump for the Travel Ban, expressing a heartfelt appreciation for a leader set on protecting America and American lives.

Jamie Glazov is Frontpage Magazines editor. He holds a Ph.D. in History with a specialty in Russian, U.S. and Canadian foreign policy. He is the author of the critically acclaimed and best-selling, United in Hate: The Lefts Romance with Tyranny and Terror. He hosts the web TV show The Glazov Gang. You can contact him at jamieglazov11@gmail.com.

Also see,

Dr. Bill Warner Moment: How to Use the Elements of Islam to Vet Muslim Migrants.

*Miami-Dade County Withdraws Sanctuary Standing After Trumps Threat To Withhold Federal Funds

President Trump has threatened to cut Federal funding to cities that continue to break the law and declare themselves Sanctuary Cities; places where illegal aliens are welcome and where law enforcement will not lift a finger to help Federal authorities in locating or deporting these illegal aliens. These cities believe they are above the law. And Trump has had enough. So the money is on the line and already some of these places are backing down.

One of them is Miami-Dade County, where this past Friday, the Miami-Dade county commission held a 9-3 vote to put an end to their sanctuary status. The city is said to garner 355 million dollars in Federal funds each year. And as they say, money talks and nonsense walks. The mayor of Miami-Dade, Carlos Gimenez (pictured above), a LEGAL Cuban born immigrant himself, is predictably taking heat from Liberals in his town. But when 355 million is at stake, the decision is easy; no more sanctuary city.

This is great news for the rule of law in our nation. Thank you President Trump for getting tough on Lefty lawbreakers. He is going to make immigration great again; one sanctuary city loss at a time.

*BAD NEWS: Second Amendment Advocates Are Dealt Another Blow By Overreaching Government

On February 16, 2017 the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals published a ruling that chips away at the privacy of Americans. They ruled, after this particular case had been through several other lower courts in the last few years, that indeed, doctors can ask their patients whether they own firearms, saying mainly, two things to support their decision. One, they state that a doctor asking a patient about firearm ownership does not constitute infringement of that patients 2nd Amendment right to own them since the doctor has no legal authority to take then away, and two, that if it were legally prohibited for doctors to ask about firearms, that it would constitute an infringement on the doctors First Amendment right to free speech. See a section from the 11th Circuits decision below:

DR. BERND WOLLSCHLAEGER versus

GOVERNOR, STATE OF FLORIDA et al.

The first problem is that there was no evidence whatsoever before the

Florida Legislature that any doctors or medical professionals have taken away

patients firearms or otherwise infringed on patients Second Amendment rights.

This evidentiary void is not surprising because doctors and medical professionals,

as private actors, do not have any authority (legal or otherwise) to restrict the ownership or possession of firearms by patients (or by anyone else for that matter).

The Second Amendment right to own and possess firearms does not preclude

questions about, commentary on, or criticism for the exercise of that right. So, as the district court aptly noted, see Wollschlaeger I, 880 F. Supp. 2d at 1264, there is no actual conflict between the First Amendment rights of doctors and medical professionals and the Second Amendment rights of patients that justifies FOPAs speaker-focused and content-based restrictions on speech.

This case was heard by and ruled on by ED CARNES (pictured above), Chief Circuit Judge, and TJOFLAT, HULL, MARCUS, WILSON, WILLIAM PRYOR, MARTIN, JORDAN, ROSENBAUM, JULIE CARNES, and JILL PRYOR, Circuit Judges. JORDAN, Circuit Judge.

The Left always thinks your life is their business, always in the name of keeping us safe. These judges appear to believe that as well. The issue before the court should not have been a patients right to bear arms or a doctors right to speak freely and ask about those arms. The real issue should have been this; a patients right to PRIVACY. Whether or not a patient owns firearms is NONE OF HIS DOCTORS BUSINESS and has no legitimate connection to the doctors provision of health care.

One could conceive of a situation whereby whenever a doctor asks his or her patient about owning firearms, that the answers received could be recorded in a database of some kind. And that kind of database detailing which patients own guns, or how many and what kind, is bad news for Americans. At no time is it appropriate for that information to be available to the government, or private citizens and political or news organizations.

An Americans right to bear arms is sacrosanct and quite frankly outside of the need to know of our physicians. Hey doc, mind your own business. You dont ask if I have a gun and I wont ask if you do. Because if, like these 11t Circuit judges said, you have the First Amendment right to ask, then we the patient also have the First Amendment right to either not answer your impudent question or ask you if YOU own any firearms. How do you like them apples?

*Pence Gives Iran A WARNING: Trump Administration Will Never Allow You To Obtain Nukes!

As reported by the Times of Israel, United States Of America Vice President Mike Pence released a statement earlier today. Washington is holding no punches when it comes to their commitment to ensuring that Iran will never have the means to threaten Israel with a nuclear weapon attack.

Yes, the U.S. under Trumps leadership is making sure things go back to the way they are suppose to be, and Israel is becoming family again. We will not allow Iran to terrorize them any longer.

Vice President Pence was speaking at the Munich Security Conference and that is where he called Tehran the leading state sponsor of terrorism calling them out for continuing to destabilize the Middle East.

Thanks to the end of nuclear-related sanctions under the [nuclear deal] Iran now has additional resources to devote to these efforts, he said.

Let me be clear again: Under President Trump the United States will remain fully committed to ensuring that Iran never obtains a nuclear weapon capable of threatening our countries, our allies in the region, especially Israel.

He has pledged an unwavering commitment to Israel:

The United States is and will always be your greatest ally. Be assured that President Trump and our people are truly devoted to our transatlantic union,

The promise to share the burden of our defense has gone unfulfilled for too many, for too long and it erodes the very foundation of our alliance, he warned, stressing that the time has come to do more.

Plans are to boost defense spending significantly, to defend our nation and our treaty allies from the known threats of today and the unknown threats of tomorrow

We will meet our obligations to our people to provide for the common defense, and well continue to do our part to support our allies in Europe and in NATO, he said.

Lots of promises. So far they have made good on many of their campaign promises

What do you think about what has gone down as they capped the week with this whirlwind of diplomacy?

Exciting times .no doubt.

*Even After 8 Years of Campaigner-in-Chief Obama, NPR WHINES That Trump Is On Permanent Campaign

Uber hypocrisy alert! Obama campaigned all eight years he was in office. Now, suddenly NPR has their panties in a twist that Trump is conducting a permanent campaign. Oh, stuff it already. You see, its only okay when the left does it, but take someone like President Trump and then its a crime. Immediately after Trump was inaugurated, he filed papers to run in 2020 thats a historic first. But given his savvy marketing acumen, it doesnt surprise me in the least. It certainly offends the left though, which I find amusing.

It may indeed be true that Americans are tired of never-ending campaigns I know I am. But that doesnt change the current political reality and to get a leg up on running against a chosen leftist, Trump is wasting no time. In fact, hes holding a huge rally in Florida today. Liberals are whining to the heavens over it. And dont you dare complain about Trump utilizing I or me or the royal we too much after that narcissist Obama went on a self-love fest for eight years. Do you even watch the show?

From Breitbart:

After eight years of Barack Obama putting his office into permanent campaign mode while keeping his campaign machinery in constant operation, NPR is accusing Donald J. Trump of waging a permanent campaign. In a February 17 article, NPRs Ron Elving claimed that the American people are tired of presidential campaigns that last too long, but Now, they are confronted with one that refuses to end  even after reaching the White House. Elvings attack on Trump came in response to the Presidents often combative February 15 press conference that the NPR Washington correspondent described with a simple Wow. After noting the criticism of the presser published by various news outlets, Elving then complained that Trump used I or me or the royal we too often during his presentation. The NPR staffer then went on to say, The president often seemed to be responding in the manner of a candidate. He added, The campaign mode continues this weekend, with the president again rallying like its 2016. Elving suggested that Trump might be being using this permanent campaign as a tactic to keep his policy ideas at the front of the political discussion.

Listen to this asshat: Or perhaps the campaign continues because it continues, Elving said as he wrapped up. The president does not yet seem comfortable in his new office with all the crosswinds and complications of divided powers and shared responsibilities. No, hes just capable of multitasking, you idiot. This guy acts like the continuous Obama campaign never happened. He has an extremely selective memory, or more likely, hes just a dishonest hypocrite.

Obama kept his campaign apparatus, Organizing for America, in operation even after what he claimed would be his last election. Well, now hes raising money to fight Trump and the right so in essence, Obama never did stop. Hes got an army of 30,000 activists following him. In August of 2009, former George W. Bush political adviser Karl Rove charged that Obama was continuing to use divisive and permanent campaign tactics, despite easily winning his election. The Washington Times observed the same thing.

President Trump has nothing on Obama when it comes to constant campaigning, community organizing and raising funds. But he does realize clearly that he has a hell of a fight ahead of him. Trump is a scrapper and the left just hates it that he is getting the jump on them. It makes me smile.

*Entitled College Kids At Wisconsin University DEMAND Black Students Must Have Free Tuition!

I hate to break it to the student government of the University of Wisconsin-Madison, but this isnt their decision to make. Last week they ruled that black students, including former prison inmates, should be given free tuition, housing and access to the university. Why? Because slavery. Thats fricking insane. Evidently, these entitled guilt-ridden snowflakes passed a resolution. Black students make up about 2% of the student body there, but they want a whole bunch more. And they are calling ACT and SAT scores an example of white supremacy. They want to do away with them. SMH.

Their resolution also demands that the university dedicate 10 percent of donations to help with financial aid and study the option of admissions based on geographic location along with putting less weight on ACT and SAT test scores. This sounds a lot like the Black Liberation Collective. A racist, radical Marxist group that is dedicated to bringing freedom and liberation for all black people, according to their website. Their symbol is a raised black fist a la the New Black Panthers and Black Lives Matter. They are a revolutionary group and violent.

From TheBlaze:

The student government of the University of Wisconsin-Madison decided on Wednesday that black students, including former inmates, should be given free tuition, housing, and access to the university. The Associated Students of Madison adopted a resolution saying that all black students should receive free education because blacks were denied an education during slavery and because they say that the university is out of reach for black students, according to the Associated Press. It also says that students hailing from suburban areas are overrepresented at the school because the school requires ACT and SAT scores for application consideration, and that the requirement of those test scores in the application process is an example of white supremacy. The students contend that taking ACT and SAT scores into consideration for acceptance to the university denies lower income students the opportunity to enroll at the university. The resolution would end up saving each black student around $20,000 in tuition and housing. Black students make up around 2 percent of the student community at the Madison UW flagship campus, and has grown by about 15 percent in recent years.

Just who the hell do these students think they are? They dont control who gets tuition and housing at that school. Its a good thing they dont. This so-called resolution comes after several racially-charged incidents occurred on campus within the last year. Per TheBlaze, in 2016, one student spat on and shouted racial obscenities at a black student, swastikas and pictures of Adolf Hitler were posted on a Jewish students door, and a student was arrested after allegedly spray-painting messages about racism on campus buildings. Just last month, a student who had previously been arrested for burning down predominantly black churches in the area attempted to start a white supremacist group on campus, an idea he eventually backed down on after the student body railed against the idea. And I might add, I dont believe all these incidents and I think some of them were staged. Theres a whole lack of evidence here.

The university is building a black cultural center, which is a mistake. You are emboldening these radicals. And they are holding diversity training for the staff and students. Thats just stupid and more Marxist racist bull crap. The author of the resolution, Tyriel Mack, suggested in a statement that the school needed to back up their words with actions. The universitys rhetoric suggests that it is committed to diversity and inclusion, so this legislation compels the university to move towards action  which is imperative, he said. If no one challenges the universitys empty promises, then the racial composition will remain stagnant. And the school is dumb enough to be considering all this. Heres an idea expel the instigators. Most students would thank you.

*KARMA: Tulsa Restaurant FIRES Employees Who Ditched Work To Protest With A Day Without Immigrants

Thats Oklahoma for you its one of the reasons this is such a great state. A dozen immigrants at a local restaurant decided to take off for A Day Without Immigrants. There was a special something waiting for them when they returned to work pink slips. They were summarily fired because they no showed/no called in for work and the owner doesnt tolerate that. Good for him.

This wasnt discrimination its business and these workers knew the policy when they pulled this stunt. Frankly, I didnt even know about the boycott last Thursday. Id say their protest was a huge bust and it didnt get President Trumps attention in the least. Perhaps they will be more mindful in their next jobs, unless of course they are illegal aliens in which case I suggest they get legal or get out.

From Liberty Unyielding:

As noted in these pages, Thursday was a day of solidarity for immigrant workers across the nation, who were urged to walk off the job en masse. This Day Without Immigrants was supposed to make a powerful statement about how indispensable immigrants are to our nation. But one Tulsa restaurant made a powerful statement of its own by making the Day Without Immigrants a permanent condition in the lives of twelve [of] its employees, who received pink slips when they returned to work Friday. According to ABC affiliate KTUL, the workers who chose to participate in the walkout are all Hispanic and are now claiming that they were unfairly terminated. But the eaterys owner, Bill McNally, explained to reporters that he has a zero tolerance policy for no show/no call incidents and the 12 employees violated that policy. He added that he has fired other workers [for] the same violation over the past two years, which should have been fair warning to the hapless dozen who  it is now hoped  came away with a valuable lesson about setting priorities.

These workers only speak Spanish. I wouldnt hire them just for that reason alone. They claim they felt a duty to stand up for immigrants living and working in the US. That was their way to show they are needed in the community, said a friend who translated. Perhaps they can make their statement in the unemployment line. Just sayin.

All of the employees who ditched work received notice of their termination via text message. A message to one of the employees reads: You and your family are fired. I hope you enjoyed your day off and you can enjoy many more. Love you. Ouch. But I cant say I blame the guy at all. In an epic piece of irony, the restaurants name is: I Dont Care Bar and Grill. Too funny.

*Conservatives FURIOUS That VA Employees Wasted 1 Million Hours On Union Activities Instead Of Wounded Veterans!

Conservatives are simply furious after finding out that VA employees are spending all their time helping unions and not helping veterans. Thats unconscionable. House Republicans went after the Department of Veterans Affairs this past week over hundreds of employees, who are paid by American taxpayers, devoting their time solely to union activities. The VA doesnt even have a standard way of recording employee work hours no doubt by design. 290,000 employees spent around 1.1 million hours on union affairs in fiscal year 2015. 346 of them spent all their time on union issues. Just think how many veterans died because no one had time for them. It is monstrous.

Trumps administration simply must clean up the VA and stop this kind of corruption. Both Republicans and Democrats are now demanding an accounting of hours spent on union activities by employees at the VA. Unfortunately, thats going to be next to impossible to do. I suggest they scrap the two different time recording systems and go to one that is more detailed and reliable. And fire all the management in the VA and start over. Hire only those who have served in the military and those qualified to give the very best treatment available to veterans.

From the Washington Free Beacon:

House Republicans berated the Department of Veterans Affairs on Thursday for allowing hundreds of employees to devote all their taxpayer-funded work hours to union activities instead of helping veterans. VA records reveal that 290,000 employees spent around 1.1 million hours on union affairs in fiscal year 2015, with 346 of those employees devoting all of their hours to official time, the Daily Caller reported Friday. Official time is, according to the Office of Personnel Management, paid time off from assigned government duties to represent a union or its bargaining unit employees, for which taxpayers foot the bill. This discovery led Republicans and some Democrats on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Government Operations to demand that the VA provide a full account of how official time is spent at the VA. The issue arose after a recent report from the Government Accountability Office showed that the VA does not have a standardized method of tracking hours and attendance. The department uses two different systems to record and calculate work hours and it has not properly trained employees on how to use them.

The inconsistent recording of official time raises questions about VAs ability to monitor its use, but [VA Time and Attendance System, or VATAS] could help to standardize this process, the GAO report said. In rolling out the new system, which VA expects to complete agency-wide in 2018, VA has provided inconsistent training and guidance on how to use the codes in VATAS. Whoever is the new VA head, I would seriously review that system even though it is new and make sure it does what it is supposed to do. And I would hold upper management responsible for it being utilized correctly.

Union officials and managers at three of the five VA facilities the GAO visited, however, believe that official time can be spent in a productive way to improve relations between management and labor. Yeah, productive for the union, not so much the vets. In the GAO report, union officials assert that official time is beneficial because it provides time for union officials to build and maintain good rapport with management, and managers and union officials from four out of five groups said official time may help resolve problems before they escalate. This is bull crap. Far too many hours are being spent on union activities. This needs to be stopped immediately. We should be putting the vets first, not the union.

*WHAT THE?! EPA Employees Worked With Dems To Sabotage Trumps PickTHEIR BOSS!

God bless Oklahoma! Scott Pruitt was confirmed this week as the Director of the Environmental Protection Agency. He proved over and over in Oklahoma that he is no friend to the EPA and has vowed to get rid of the agency. Hes now actively working to put himself out of a job and I cant wait. He should start issuing pink slips immediately and clean out that environmental sewer. Then he can expose all those nasty secret documents that have been hidden by those that work there. Pruitt is what I call environmentally friendly to Americans and a stone cold enemy of radicals and Marxists.

In a panic move, the agency urged employees to call their Senators. It didnt do them a damn bit of good and I am all kinds of good with that. Former Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt was indeed confirmed as the new Director of the EPA on Friday, obviously to the chagrin of the employees of the agency hes about to lead. Pruitt isnt the hiring kind hes the firing kind when it comes to EPA. Ive never seen government employees actively try to block the nomination of their incoming boss. I guess they never heard of the Hatch Act which prevents government employees from lobbying. Sucks to be them.

From The Week:

In a last-ditch effort to block the confirmation of President Trumps Environmental Protection Agency director nominee Scott Pruitt, EPA employees have resorted to calling their senators. (Ahead of) Pruitts confirmation vote employees at the agency (were) growing increasingly worried about the possibility of a new boss who has vowed to get rid of the EPA and who sued the EPA at least 14 times while he was Oklahomas attorney general, The New York Times reported.

It seems like Trump and Pruitt want a complete reversal of what EPA has done. I dont know if theres any other agency thats been so reviled, said EPA lawyer Nicole Cantello. So its in our interests to do this. The bold and blatant effort is out of the ordinary, and perhaps unprecedented. Ive been here for 30 years, and Ive never called my senator about a nominee before, an EPA employee in North Carolina told The New York Times. Former EPA employee Judith Enck said the rebellion reveals how desperate EPA employees are to block Pruitt. EPA staff are pretty careful. Theyre risk-averse, Enck said. If people are saying and doing things like this, its because theyre really concerned.

The ongoing actions of the EPA and those connected to it certainly should not be tolerated. And I am sure that Pruitt knows that almost all of them must go because they will block and betray him at every turn. Theyve already said they would and have proven it. Hes not alone while Tillerson is abroad, there was ordered an absolute bloodbath at the State Department. Hes aggressively cleaning house as well. Most of the seventh floor there was sent packing yesterday. If I were a leftist at the EPA, Id be shopping for a new job and fast as well.

These people are actively trying to sabotage the Trump administration. Its well past time for a solid purge. No one is untouchable and they work for us. I hope Pruitt aggressively goes after the subversives at the Environmental Protection Agency. And someone for Gods sake, go after the Bureau of Land Management while you are at it. Pruitt is a good and honorable man. Hes on the hunt at the EPA and hes going to clean house of Obama and leftist operatives.

*WATCH As Milo Spars With Real Time Panel, With Larry Wilmore Telling Him To F#@K Off [VIDEO]

Well, if you love the F word, youll love this story. Milo Yiannopoulos appeared on Real Time with Bill Maher yesterday and it was, I suppose, entertainment. Im not a big fan of Milo and I am definitely not a fan of Maher. I agree with some of what Milo says and disagree with other stances of his. I find him very hard to watch because hes soooo flamboyant. Maher and Milo started out by talking about transgenders being allowed into womens restrooms. Milo is against that as he sees it posing a threat to women and children. I agree and oddly enough, so did Maher. But thats where things began to blow up.

Maher did stand up for Milo and chastised leftists for drowning out his opinion. Then theres the panel comedian Larry Wilmore, former GOP Congressman Jack Kingston and former intel analyst Malcolm Nance of NBC. Everyone was rude right out the gate except Kingston. They discussed transgenders and gay rights. Larry Wilmore was certainly no fan of Milo Yiannopoulos. At one point he told Milo, You can go f*ck yourself! And from there, the word was used constantly. You either loved it or hated it I cringed and was glad it was over.

From Breitbart:

During the Overtime segment of Fridays edition of HBOs Real Time, Breitbart Editor Milo also talked with host Bill Maher and his panelists, comedian Larry Wilmore, former GOP Congressman Jack Kingston, and former intel analyst Malcolm Nance of NBC. During the discussion, the panel debated transgender and gay rights, during which Nance asked Milo if he was describing himself when he talked about gay people who are confused about their sexuality. Later, the panel traded barbs about each other and Leslie Jones, with Milo saying that the rest of the panel was stupid, prompting Wilmore to tell him to go f*ck himself, say Milo was pathetic and douchey and tell Milo to go f*ck himself a second time over Milos thoughts on Leslie Jones. Nance also jokingly told Milo to f*ck off after he found out Milo wasnt American, and Milo shot for Kingston to tell him to go f*ck himself.

Milo pointed out that transgenders were vastly disproportionately involved in sex crime. I have no idea whether that is true or not. Wilmore went off on Milo over it and the war of words exploded. Milo made remarks against female comedians in his interview and criticized guest Malcolm Nance. This was not a friendly panel and Milo wound up calling all of them stupid. He went after Leslie Jones of Ghostbusters infamy and Lena Dunham. At one point, Maher said to Yiannopoulos, Some people would say you have incited [violence], and when his guest responded with Well, they would be idiots, he was met with more silence. I dont think Milo speaking incites violence I think any excuse will do to riot against someone you dont agree with.

I understand Milo does what he does for entertainment and some sort of enlightenment, but I dont think this kind of verbal brawling does us any good in furthering the conservative narrative. Although, Milo is technically not what I would call a conservative, his is a flavor of it. Just one that I dont particularly find palatable.

WARNING: Foul Language and Content youve now been warned:

*Wisconsin University Snowflakes Are Crying Over New Bill That Will Protect FREE SPEECH!

Its a sad ole day in America when someone has to actually pass a bill to protect free speech at our universities. Governor Scott Walker is doing just that in Wisconsin. His bill requires that university officials actively defend free speech. The bill is a companion piece of legislation to Walkers budget proposal. Its sure to have university Marxists and snowflakes up in arms and all offended. Me likey.

Free speech we dont like is inherently the speech that needs protection. Leftists are screaming that students should not be prevented from protesting speech they are against and I agree no one is advocating that. But Walker and constitutionalists do intend to make sure that those who have opinions not endorsed by liberals are free to speak on campuses across the US. They are being aggressively silenced by Marxist university personnel, activists and personnel by fines and by rioting. I commend Governor Walker for making this move.

From Breitbart:

A bill proposed by Governer Scott Walker would require Wisconsin university officials to defend free speech. The bill, which is proposed as a companion bill to Gov. Walkers budget proposal, asks for a budget provision of $10,000 for the University of Wisconsin system in order to revise its policies related to academic freedom. Describing the use of the additional funding to the university, the bill states, the board and each institution and college campus has a responsibility not only to promote a lively and fearless freedom of debate and deliberation, but also to protect that freedom when others attempt to restrict it. It is not the proper role of the board or any institution or college campus to attempt to shield individuals from ideas and opinions they find unwelcome, disagreeable, or even deeply offensive. The proposed bill is predictably not without its critics in academia. Just as speakers should have the right to comment on issues they want to, students should have the right to protest what speakers are saying. If the university is being told to censor students, that is troubling, said Jason Klein, spokesperson for Associated Students of Madison.

UW-Madison Professor of political science and law Howard Schreber mentioned Breitbart Senior editor MILO when discussing the proposed bill: Milo has been guilty of all sorts of misbehaviors that go well beyond freedom of expression. His own message is profoundly anti-free speech, but that message is just as protected as any other. And that is what it comes down to. It should be a middle ground where the left and right can meet. Universities should not try to limit the range of opinions that are expressed, including opinions critical of other opinions, Schweber said. If the university allows groups on campus to invite speakers, it cannot discriminate among those groups or speakers on the basis of an unpopular or offensive message.

Similar bills have appeared in legislatures around the country, following student backlash to the controversial appearances of far-right speakers and organizations on college campuses. Speakers such as Milo Yiannopoulos and Ben Shapiro have a right to speak when asked to and students have a right to listen or not as they see fit. Heck, they can even protest. But they only have the right to peacefully assemble, not riot and physically attack those who disagree with them. Snowflakes are melting over this. Too freaking bad. The Constitution guarantees freedom of speech; especially speech that others abhor.

*Peaceful Leftists At UNC Promote Violence Against Trump Supporters

Its an interesting dichotomy. Leftists always tell us how peaceful they are, how they abhor violence, that the solution is never violence. Then, you turn around, and they are committing violence, such as assault, arson, property destruction. Remember all the rapes and other crimes from Occupy Wall Street? All the riots since Trump was elected? And then there are the threats. Leftists say they are tolerant. In practice? Not so much

FLYER POSTED ON UNC CAMPUS EXPRESSES ACTS OF VIOLENCE TO TRUMP SUPPORTERS The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill is responding to a threatening flyer circulating around campus. In a letter to students, faculty, and staff Thursday, Chancellor Carol Folt  along with other UNC officials  said the flyer expresses acts of violence to supporters of President Trump. They said the university is taking the flyer very seriously. The flyer and its message are the antithesis of the values that are the foundation of our University, the letter read. It is not designed to spark civil discourse or encourage thoughtful debate. Its intentions are to incite violence, and there is no place for that here or in our society.

Well, really, thats todays Democrats in a nutshell. Those last two sentences perfectly describe Liberals. They do not want to debate, and they love violence against anything and anyone who are Not Approved.

While it is great that the University leadership put out a message, it is rather short. From what we have seen in the past, the messages tend to be very long when they are supportive of leftist causes.

Leftists should remember that right leaning citizens are more likely to be armed than leftists.

*Trumps Immigration Orders Could Endanger Public Safety Or Something

The notion of catching those who are unlawfully present in the United States and potentially deporting them causing a supposed problem with public safety is not a new notion talking point. Supporters of illegal aliens have long trotted it out as a reason to not perform a silly function like enforcing immigration law and securing our nation from invasion (Article 4 section 4). Why do they support illegals? The better question is, why do they support illegals over US citizens, going so far as to lie and omit information? We should ask Jonathan Blanks, whos part of the libertarian leaning CATO institution

How enforcing Trumps immigration actions could hurt public safety Last week, federal immigration officials seized an unauthorized immigrant at an El Paso courthouse where she had been seeking a protective order against an alleged domestic abuser. The judge who oversees the court that issued the protective order expressed dismay that such a seizure took place when the person was seeking protection from violence, and perhaps acting on a tip provided by the alleged abuser himself. President Trump has said his proposed actions to stiffen immigration enforcement are in the interests of public safety, but seizures such as the one in El Paso and the proposed revitalization of the 287(g) program that deputizes local law enforcement to enforce federal immigration law make the public less safe and interfere with local policing priorities. (snip) Seizing a person who is seeking refuge from violence subverts the protective function of police officers. If individuals fear as much from law enforcement as they do the criminals living among and victimizing them, they will not come forward to report crimes or cooperate with criminal investigations. Non-cooperation makes police officers jobs harder by emboldening and enriching criminals who, consequently, may operate with impunity where people are less willing to help investigators.

Well, now, that is very cute. Law enforcement arrested a person seeking protection from violence! Perhaps Blanks should have mentioned a bit of information from the Washington Post article he cited (which itself is rather unhinged that this person would be detained by ICE), which is way, way, way deep, at a point where most have already moved on to a new story

According to the affidavit, I.E.G. has a criminal and immigration history that dates back to 2010 and includes numerous deportations and arrests for assault, violating probation, domestic violence, false imprisonment and possession of stolen mail.

Ive said it before and Ill say it again: is this the type of illegal that supporters really want to defend? Well, sure, when they fail to mention that they arent one of the good illegals. Regardless, if youre starting out your screed with a lie of omission, the rest is a pile of mule fritters.

One Los Angeles Police Dept. detective told the Los Angeles Times, It is my job to investigate crimes. . . . And if I cant do that, I cant get justice for people, because all of a sudden, Im losing my witnesses or my victims because theyre afraid that talking to me is going to lead to them getting deported. When he recently approached a group of Latino workers to investigate a crime, they stood up and walked away. Even though Los Angeles has repeatedly asserted its self-appointed status as a sanctuary city for immigrants, one of the workers uttered Trump is coming, as he left.

Heres the gist, which has been trotted out before: if illegals are being targeted for detainment and deportation (God forbid!), they might be unwilling to reach out to law enforcement and/or talk to them about crimes against themselves and/or within their communities of illegal aliens.

Its a load a steaming donkey droppings. If they werent here in violation of immigration laws, it wouldnt be a problem in the first place. The criminal community isnt too enthused about reaching out to law enforcement over crimes against themselves. No one complains about that. If illegals arent present in the United States, then theres no problem. Why, exactly, are we so concerned with the plight of law breakers?

Crossed at Pirates Cove. Follow me on Twitter @WilliamTeach.

*HAHA! National Day Without Immigrants Protest Totally BACKFIRES In Totally Unexpected Way

Yesterday, the left was busy off on yet another insincere publicity stunt that took the form of a day without immigrants. Basically, some immigrants in this country went on strike to fight against Trumps attempts to deport criminal illegal immigrants out of the country.

So this was the plan:

Prove to the racist President and his new Nazi supporters just how the country would purportedly come to a screeching halt if they were not here to keep it up and running

Before we go any further, can we make it clear that the left just refuses to make the differentiation between immigrant and illegal immigrant? One being very important to the history and growth of the country, and the other being very good at tax evasion and identity theft.

Much to the surprise ofWell, no one that has half a brain, it would appear that not a single apocalyptic sign appeared in the sky during the protest event. Nope. All went on without a problem, and most didnt even realize that the immigration protest thingy was actually going on.

Even the New York Times basically acknowledged that the protest was more troublesome than anything else, and that cities did NOT cease to a functionLike, at all.

February 16 marked a fascinating collection of two competing worldviews in the country these days.

On the one hand, illegal immigrants and their supporters avoided work to stage a day without immigrants in an endeavor to show how the country would seemingly grind to a halt if they were deported. On the other, President Trump signed a pivotal and much-needed piece of legislation configured to put thousands of coal miners back to work, earning a living for their families.

Folks, we have got to stop freaking out over every little thing that is going on in politics. It is making us sick! Just turn off the TV, put down the smart phone, and go learn a new skill, spend time with your family, WORK! Anything that will keep you away from the crap-hole that is politics, is time well spent these days.

*OOPS! Emails LEAKED That Show What Democrats REALLY Think Of Obama

The media would have you believe that Democrats so loved Barack Obama that they would have willingly given him a third term if it were possible. While that may be true of people like your left-leaning neighbor, leaked emails reveal that Democratic politicians didnt think so highly of him.

In fact, they believed he was quite oblivious and out of touch.

From Allen B. West:

As the Daily Beast reported: This is some GRADE A Bulls**t right here, Stephen Handwerk, executive director of the Louisiana Democratic Party, wrote in a private Democratic-listserv email obtained by The Daily Beast. Handwerk was reacting to news of OFAs post-election retooling, which was shared without comment to the group of state-level Dems by Crystal Kay Perkins, executive director for Texas Democrats. It also to me seems TONE DEAFwe have lost over 1,000 seats in the past 8 yearsall because of this crap, Handwerk continued. Lets get through the next two weeksbut then we gotta figure this out and keep the pressure on. WOW. Others on the thread shared these sentiments. Yes, it sure is, Katie Mae Simpson, executive director for the Maine Democratic Party, replied. OFA showed up in Maine, organized a press conference on saving [Obamacare], with one of our Dem legislative leaders speaking, all without ever mentioning that they were in state and organizing. They hired someone I know, which is somewhat helpful, but my god, they dont have a very good alliance-building process. Such grievances, though expressed privately, are nothing new among state Democratic Party leadership. [With] all due respect to President Obama, OFA was created as a shadow party because Obama operatives had no faith in state parties, Nebraska Democratic Party Chair Jane Kleeb told Politico last week. Some members of the DNC are expressing concern that the OFA risks diverting fundraising away from the Party and towards what will be Obamas political base. Two Democrat operatives that the Daily Beast reached out to for comment referred to OFA as the Devil.

It appears the the Democrats are much more internally divided than we may have originally thought. Is it possible that Obama doesnt hold as much political sway as we think?

*Host Of The View Sinks Lower Than Expected, INSULTS Melania And that child Living In Trump Tower

I think its time for the ladies of The View to take an extended vacation to some anger management classes. They appear to be obsessed with First Lady Melania Trump and her son, Barron.

Wasnt it the left who was constantly harping on conservatives for insulting Michele Obama and Malia? I guess the FLOTUS and children are only off limits when you like them, huh?

Liberal comedienne and View co-host Joy Behar is not a fan of Donald Trump, but this is too far even for her.

From BizPac Review:

Joy Behars contempt for the family of President Donald Trump was on full display Friday. And the liberal comedian and host of ABCs The View was unable to mask the fact that her vitriol extends all the way to the presidents 10-year-old son Barron. During a segment in which her co host Whoopi Goldberg erroneously stated that the National Endowment for the Arts was defunded. That funding, all that wonderful government funding we used to get for these kinds of programs have all been cut, Goldberg said. Thanks Mr. T. The funding has not been cut but it is being considered, as an article in the Los Angeles Times pointed out. The latest attack comes from two groups, the Heritage Foundation and the Republican Study Committee in the House of Representatives. They jointly recommend that President Trump eliminate the NEA and its companion agency, the National Endowment for the Humanities, in the new White House budget. The Trump administration has not yet made a decision, and the president has made no public statement on the issue. Despite the fake news, Joy Behar jumped on the bandwagon. But who needs facts when you have an agenda to push? For the smug Behar, that agenda included blaming a 10 year-old child for the fictitious defunding. Somebody wrote, I have to clear this up,  They said that the entire NEA budget is like one day of Melania (Trump) in Trump Tower, she said. Somebody find this out for me, the price that were paying for losing the NEA, the National Endowment for the Arts, because we are paying for this woman to live in New York with that child, she said with sounded like utter contempt in her voice.

Watch the video here.

I will be awaiting a sincere apology, but something tells me Ill be waiting for quite a long time.

*Leftists Demand Free Tuition and Housing for Blacks, Denounce Aptitude Tests

The student government at the University of Wisconsin-Madison insists that black students be provided with free tuition and housing at others expense.

This outlandish demand was issued partially on the grounds that blacks were denied educational opportunities during slavery, which ended many generations ago. Now non-blacks are to be the slaves, working to provide for blacks on a coercive basis. That is morally warped, but it gets worse still:

The Associated Students of Madison said in a resolution that students from suburban high schools are overrepresented. The group said consideration of ACT and SAT scores in applications restricts opportunities for the poor and thus upholds white supremacy.

Objective tests discriminate in favor of those most likely to make good use of educational opportunities. That is their purpose. Therefore, to fight discrimination, we must reject these tests.

Merely excluding higher-performing whites to make room for lower-performing blacks is not enough to achieve social justice. Excluded whites must be forced to pay for the blacks tuition and even their room and board.

The resolution demands free access to the university for all black people, including former inmates. That means free tuition, free housing and no fees, [ASM Student Council Rep. Tyriek] Mack said. That would save a black resident undergraduate student about $20,000 a year.

The resolution also demands that the university study the feasibility of test-optional and geographically weighted admissions.

Aptitude tests should be optional, because objective measures enforce white supremacy. Having black skin is what should get you into school. Having black skin and coming from a ghetto is even better.

Better still: why not keep the aptitude tests, but turn them upside down, so that the lower your score, the more likely you are to be accepted? That would accomplish the liberal goals of increasing diversity and undermining white supremacy.

This isnt just notoriously moonbatty U.W.-Madison:

The language mirrors demands that the Black Liberation Collective, a national network of black youth focused on higher education, has made to nearly 90 campuses across the country.

Thank you, Black Liberation Collective, for hopefully opening a few eyes to the depravity of liberal ideology by pushing it along toward its utterly insane logical conclusion.

Useless people demand that you finance their slothful posturing.

On tips from Artfldgr, Bodhisattva, rpp618, and Varla. Cross-posted at Moonbattery.

*The Senate Votes to REMOVE Obama Era GUN BAN LIST You Didnt Know We Had

This is great news! The Senate has voted to quash Obamas anti-gun rule that mandated that anyone on Social Security that sought any form of assistance with their finances or taxes was to have their Second Amendment rights stripped in the name of mental health. They were placed on the National Instant Criminal Background Check System, which is in effect a gun ban list. This took gun rights away from some of the most vulnerable out there the elderly. Sanity has returned constitutionally under President Trumps administration and the Senate made the right move here. I commend them for it.

This regulation unfairly stigmatizes people with disabilities, Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) said this week, according to the Washington Examiner. If the regulation is not repealed, it will allow the agency to very unfairly deprive Social Security recipients of their Second Amendment rights. This is essentially a national gun ban list, he added. And it was always meant to function as one since Obama was anti-gun and was stripping all Americans of their Second Amendment rights incrementally.

From Young Conservatives:

Great news from the Senate! A group of people whose Second Amendment rights were impaired under Obama have just gotten help from the Senate. From TheBlaze: The Senate voted this week to undo an Obama-era rule that conservatives have argued unduly limits the Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms. In December 2016, former President Barack Obamas White House issued a rule requiring the Social Security Administration to report anyone needing third-party assistance to manage their Social Security benefits to be placed in the National Instant Criminal Background Check System, which would bar them from purchasing a firearm. The problem of course is the ambiguity of third party assistance. While one might obviously want to prohibit potentially violent mentally ill person from possessing a weapon, there are all manner of conditions contained within the rule for which you would not want to impair someones right, particularly given someone who might be in even greater need of defense because of disability or disease.

A number of Democrats sided with the Republicans on this one. In 2015, Sen. Joe Manchin (D-WV), who voted to overturn the Obama mandate, said in a statement that he was against an SSA rule on gun ownership because it is a blatant infringement on the Second Amendment rights of millions of Americans. Three other Democratic senators  North Dakotas Heidi Heitkamp, Indianas Joe Donnelly and Montanas Jon Tester  and Maine Sen. Angus King, an Independent who caucuses with Democrats, voted with the Republicans.

I have no doubt President Trump will sign this and it is a great first step. But there is a lot to undo constitutionally after Obama trashed our rights the way he did. Grassley and other Republicans in Congress, have argued that the Obama-era rule is too vague and wrongly prevents certain people from owning or purchasing a gun. And the National Rifle Association supports cutting the controversial rule. The Congressional Review Act makes it possible for conservatives to walk back the last-minute Obama regulation. The Act allows Congress to shoot down recently imposed regulations if majorities in both chambers agree and if the president signs the resolution. This is indeed a great move to reinstate our Second Amendment rights.

*The Economy Would Be Doomed Without Immigrants Or Something

This is yet another reason why Trump won: the medias dishonesty when it comes to the debate on illegal aliens, in which they conflate all immigrants, legal and unlawfully present, together

Without immigrants, the US economy would be a disaster, experts say Immigrants across the U.S. are refusing to go to work, attend school and shop today as part of the Day Without Immigrants, a series of protests intended to illustrate the significant economic and social impact that immigrants have on the country. The protests, which were organized on social media, are demonstrations against President Donald Trump, who has been criticized by some as anti-immigrant and xenophobic for his promises to deport unauthorized immigrants, build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border and conduct extreme vetting of immigrants from seven predominately Muslim countries.

Criticized by some. Its great how they work that in to the article in the 2nd paragraph.

While the economic impact of todays actions remains unclear, several economic experts told ABC News that the U.S. economy and workforce would be a disaster without immigrants. If all immigrants were just to disappear from the U.S. workforce tomorrow, that would have a tremendous negative impact on the economy, said Daniel Costa, the director of immigration law and policy research at the Economic Policy Institute, an economic research think tank based in Washington, D.C. Immigrants are overrepresented in a lot of occupations in both low- and high-skilled jobs, he explained. Youd feel an impact and loss in many, many different occupations and industries, from construction and landscape to finance and IT.

And thats how they conflate illegal and legal. And we arent discussing deporting those who are lawfully present. Just the illegals. We dont see anything about illegals till near the end

According to Meg Wiehe, the director of programs for the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, Undocumented immigrants contributed more than $11.6 billion in state and local taxes each year. And if the estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants here were given a pathway to citizenship or legal residential status, those tax contributions could rise by nearly $2 billion.

OK, theres an easy fix for them: they leave the country and apply for citizenship, or apply for a work visa, just like so many others who do it right. Its not that hard.

Of course, whats also missing is the cost to the states, municipalities, and country from illegals.

But, one has to wonder, what do immigrants who have committed felonies contribute economically? Because the vast majority who were caught up in the recent sweep are felons, and those sweeps are why the news media are trotting out stories like the above. Is ABC News propositioning that child molesters should be given citizenship or legal status? Is this their argument? Are these the people theyre supporting?

Crossed at Pirates Cove. Follow me on Twitter @WilliamTeach.

*FAKE NEWS ALERT: ABC Claims Trump Is Shutting Down First Amendment

ABC News chief political analyst Matthew Dowd really showcased his snowflake liberal media temper tantrum and sunk himself down to a whole new level as he recently claimed that President Trump is ignoring the questions of the Democrat Partys friends in the media and that is the very same thing as shutting down the First Amendment.

Speaking with George Stephanopolous, Dowd said This is two democracies, two important democracies in the world. And basically, the president of the United States is shutting down part of the First Amendment by not taking questions that are in any way antagonistic in this.

I think he thinks relying on his Twitter feed, and sending it out to the millions of people that subscribe to it, and then dealing with very cozy press in this is going to be the way to get through this.



.@matthewjdowd: Pres. Trump "shutting down part of the First Amendment by not taking questions that are going to be any way antagonistic." pic.twitter.com/oUGGWBR3rw  ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) February 15, 2017

I guess most of us must have missed the part of the First Amendment where it says that the President is duty-bound to take questions from news outlets. Oh wait. Its not there. It doesnt exist, along with the law that there has to be a press corpThere doesnt.

This is where Im torn and thats the medias fault. I would love to side with their complaints, I mean, the press should be working to find the truth, right? Well, for the majority of these outlets, that ship sailed a long time ago. Their hypocrisy and worship of the last President, and demonizing of the right has completely destroyed their legitimacy with millions of people around the country.

If they had just done their job and put as much effort into attacking Obama and the left as they do in Trump and the right, all of us would be right there with them, supporting them.

But they have forgotten their place and we have not.

*BREAKING: Senate Passes Vote, SMASHING Obamas Efforts For Gun Control  FINALLY!

The Senate voted this week to change by reversal an Obama-era rule that conservatives have fought against, stating that it unduly limits the Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms.

In December 2016, former President Barack Obamas White House put in a rule requiring the Social Security Administration to snitch on anyone needing third-party assistance to manage their Social Security benefits and to enter them into the National Instant Criminal Background Check System, which had the other consequence of barring them from purchasing a firearm.

The trouble of course is the expression of the phrase, third party assistance.

While one might patently want to forbid possibly violent, mentally ill persons from possessing a weapon, there are all manner of stipulations contained within the rule for which you would not want to impair someones rights, especially given someone who might be in even greater need of defense because of impairment or disease.

Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley said this week:

This regulation unfairly stigmatizes people with disabilities. If the regulation is not repealed, it will allow the agency to very unfairly deprive Social Security recipients of their Second Amendment rightsThis is essentially a national gun ban list.

It wasnt just Republicans that joined in the fight

Back in 2015, Sen. Joe Manchin was one who voted to overturn the Obama mandate, expressing in a statement that he was against an SSA rule on gun ownership because it is a blatant infringement on the Second Amendment rights of millions of Americans.

Three other senators  North Dakotas Heidi Heitkamp, Indianas Joe Donnelly and Montanas Jon Tester  and Maine Sen. Angus King, made up the rest of the Democrats that voted with the Republicans in favor of striking down this bogus rule.

This is a right that protects the other rights. It CANNOT be taken by a government that never granted it in the first place.

*Trump Announces Melanias Cause As First Lady  Liberals Heads Imploding [VIDEO]

It has been announced by President Trump that First Lady Melania will be focusing her efforts on womens issues. He also found the time to go after the media for their unfair targeting and maligning of her.

Trump said, I think that Melanias going to be outstanding. She  like others that shes working with  feel very, very strongly about womens issues, womens difficulties. Shes a very, very strong advocate. I think shes a great representative for this country.

All the past modern First Ladies have made it their project to work on certain issues to compliment their significant others platform. Nancy of course cracked down on the drugs. Laura helped children become more literate and Michellewell, Michelle took it upon herself to make kids miserable with her school lunch programs in an attempt to fight obesity.

Melania did the honor of reopening the White House visitor center this week and Trump made sure the media knew that.

Both the President and the First Lady also hosted Prime Minister Benjamin Nethanyahu and his wife Sara on Wednesday. To the medias surprise, he even had Sen. Marco Rubio and his wife Jeanette to dinner that night.



Video: PM Netanyahu and Mrs Sara Netanyahu receive a warm welcome to the White House from @POTUS Donald Trump and @FLOTUS Melania Trump pic.twitter.com/Hh6jdy410t  PM of Israel (@IsraeliPM) February 15, 2017

Trump stated outright that Melania gets so unfairly maligned by the liberal media and press, remembering that during her years working as a model, She would go home at night and wouldnt even want to go out with people. She was a very private person. She was always the highest quality that you will ever findShes been apologized to various media, because they said things that were lies.

The First Lady has shown nothing but grace in her role. How the media and the left malign her and still believe they represent womans rights is puzzlingand just plain psychotic.

*Harvard Student Creates Dating App With 2 Gender Options  Being FORCED To Apologize For It

This is where we are at as a country: some kids create an app for public use and are now being forced to apologize because they only included two genders. Horrifying, I know. Theyre clearly Hitler reincarnate.

If youll excuse me, I will be buying up stock in Kleenex and coloring books. I have a feeling sales are about to skyrocket.

From Louder With Crowder:

Youre familiar with Facebook, right (see Report Confirms Facebook Wanted to Ban Trump Posts and Facebook Bribes Recruiters to Hire Diverse Employees. It Fails Hilariously!)? Facebook was created by a student at Harvard, who was basically left to his own devices (depending on which book youve read and believe on the subject). Today? Harvard students cant create a dating app without having people complain about only giving two genders from which to choose. Twenty-six members of the Undergraduate Council, including UC President Yasmin Z. Sachee 18 and Vice President Cameron K. Khansarinia 18, signed a letter admonishing Datamatchs restrictive gender choices. Datamatch, a matchmaking algorithm created by the Harvard Computer Society for Valentines Day, forced students to choose male or female without offering options for genderqueer or gender non-conforming students. The algorithms website this year, however, allowed students to elaborate on their gender identity in a text box, but only after selecting one of the two genders provided. And of course I, on behalf of the Harvard Computer Society and on Datamatch, take full responsibility for the exclusion that we have created on campus, Cuan-Martinez said at the meeting.

This is what college is doing to the youth, its turning them into weenies who need to apologize because someone, somewhere got their feefees hurt.

*President Donald Trump has been battling with his own staff after a series of leaks that have come straight from the White House.

The most recent leak led to the resignation of Michael Flynn, former National Security Adviser. Trump is blaming this on the intelligence agencies and has immediately moved to get things cleared up.

From Western Journalism:

After dealing with an intelligence community he believes to be short on loyalty, President Donald Trump is reportedly putting Americas intelligence-gathering agencies under the microscope.

The New York Times reported Thursday that intelligence officials fear that Trump ally Stephen A. Feinberg, who helped co-found Cerberus Capital Management, is being brought in by Trump to conduct an oversight review of the American intelligence community.

Although no official announcement has been made, the Times reported that Feinberg has told shareholders he is discussing an undisclosed job with the Trump administration.

Reuters last week framed Feinbergs appointment as more structural than operational, saying that Feinbergs role would be to develop a more streamlined function for the 17 different agencies in the intelligence community that collectively spend about $70 billion annually.

Trump, who has been critical of the intelligence community for months, has become even more emphatic in his attacks on leaked intelligence in the wake of the resignation of National Security Adviser Michael Flynn, who was the target of various leaks.

From intelligence, papers are being leaked, things are being leaked; its criminal action. Its a criminal act, and its been going on for a long time before me, but now its really going on, Trump said Wednesday.

Trumps own selections to oversee intelligence issues are caught in the confirmation logjam. Trump picked former Rep. Mike Pompeo, R-Kansas, to run the CIA and former Sen. Dan Coats, R-Indiana, to be the director of national intelligence.

Pompeo had his confirmation hearing last month, but has not been voted upon by the Senate. Coats has not yet had his confirmation hearing.

*Politicians generally use the press as a way to get something out to the American people, but as we all know, the media has a tendency to twist words into clips that support whatever agenda the station is pushing.

Trump realizes this and refuses to let them get in the way of his message.

From The Federalist Papers Project:

It was officially billed as a press conference, but really, President Donald Trump wanted to talk to the American people.

So after a quick announcement of his replacement nominee for the Secretary of Labor, Trump went right over the heads of the assembled press.

Im here to update the American people on the incredible progress weve made in the last four weeks since inauguration, he said. Many or our nations reporters and folks will not tell you the truth and will not treat you with the respect you deserve. Unfortunately much of the media speaks not for the people, but for the special interests and those profiting off of a very, very broken system.

Trump continued, telling the American people that the press are doing a disservice to the American people.

The press has become so dishonest that if we dont talk about it, we do a tremendous disservice to the american people, he said. The level of dishonesty is out of control.

So Im here again to take my message straight to the American people.

Trump discussed the campaign promises that he has already kept and the ones he plans to keep; on trade, the economy, jobs and Americas broken immigration system.

Im here following through on what I pledged to do, he said. Thats all Im doing.

Trump said the media doesnt like and isnt used to a president that does what he says hes going to do.

We are following through on pledges that we made and theyre not happy about it, he said, But the people are happy about it.

*President Trump CUTS OFF Liberal Media  They Are Paying the Price and Are TICKED!

On Wednesday, Donald Trump held a press conference with Israel Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Most notably, Trump refused to take questions from some of the mainstream media and they were extremely upset about it.

Instead of calling on reporters from outlets like NBC or CNN, Trump called on reporters from the Christian Broadcasting Network and Townhall.com, which infuriated the liberal reporters there. One way to avoid hard questions on Trump admin #Russia ties? Call on CBN & a conservative website, Jim Sciutto, from CNN, complained.



One way to avoid hard questions on Trump admin #Russia ties? Call on CBN & a conservative website.  Jim Sciutto (@jimsciutto) February 15, 2017

Other journalists followed suit:



I tried  Jim Acosta (@Acosta) February 15, 2017 Trump has called on ONLY conservative outlets in his last 3 joint press conferences.  Chris Cillizza (@TheFix) February 15, 2017 So  the two reporters called on today: Christian Broadcasting Network and Town Hall. No question on Trump/Russia contacts.  Jonathan Karl (@jonkarl) February 15, 2017

Acosta further complained that the fix is in after Trump decided to call on only conservative reporters:



CNN reporter @Acosta after Trump calls on only right-wing outlets for the third straight press conference: "The fix is in" pic.twitter.com/FPtaGEIenC  John Whitehouse (@existentialfish) February 15, 2017

Barack Obama used the same fix by that standard  as the liberal media ignored all of his scandals and Obama only took questions from outlets he knew would be friendly. Yet these bastions of media ethics didnt seem to mind it so much then. The hypocrisy is astounding.

Recent polls have shown that trust in the media is at an all-time low and its not hard to see why. The mainstream media is extraordinarily biased and there are a lot of Americans who are fed up. If liberal journalists were less biased in their reporting, then they likely wouldnt be in this situation now. But liberals never take responsibility for their actions, do they?

*In the White House, President Donald J. Trump is like a lion in the zoo, a sort of sad, caged creature.

But if you let him out of the zoo and into his natural habitat, he feels like the guy who actually won the election and is President of the United States, said Bruce Haynes, a communications expert and founding partner of Purple Strategies, a bipartisan political consulting firm.

As Trump prepared to take the stage Saturday in Florida to address a crowd of enthusiastic supporters, it was instantly clear that his decision to escape Washington  and the past weeks drama  was exactly the right move at the right moment for him.

Critics said his decision to hold the event at a Melbourne airport hangar was unprecedented, bizarre and ridiculous, a 2020 campaign that is ludicrously early, given its 1,354 days till the next election.

Yet Trumps speeches across the country energize him and his supporters  and that is likely a very good thing, for his team and for the success of the nation.

Donald Trump has never shied away from enjoying the adoration of his supporters. Neither did his predecessor, Barack Obama, who gave his farewell address to the country not from the traditional location  the West Wing of the White House  but in front of a packed, exuberant audience in his adopted hometown, Chicago.

Saturdays rally was not exactly unprecedented for a president. On Feb. 09, 2009, less than three weeks into his presidency, Barack Obama visited Elkhart, Ind., to promote his controversial stimulus plan at a rally that had all of the hallmarks of a campaign event; there was a campaign-style speech, questions from the audience, and plenty of adoration from attendees.

Bill Clinton and George W. Bush both held campaign-style events in the early weeks of their presidencies, too. Now, they were not so blunt as to call the events that, but the hallmarks were all there.

In short, this is what presidents do, some more than others, to reconnect with the people who placed them in office.

Life in Washington can be confining, draining, and isolating when you are President of the United States. Visits beyond the DC Beltway can ease those burdens.

Thats particularly true for Trump.

He likely misses his wife, Melania, his youngest son, Barron, and the daily interaction with his adult children, Ivanka, Donald Jr., and Eric, who for years were at his side as business confidantes; all are removed to varying degrees from his White House routine.

Combine that with the pressures of the office, and one can only imagine how much he would relish a moment to reconnect with the real world.

To date, nearly everything on his list of accomplishments in the first four weeks of his presidency has been drowned out by his combative relationship with the press, questions about his and his advisers relationship with Russia, the delays that Democrats have forced on confirming his cabinet picks, and his continued tweeting.

Saturday, however, placed Trump on friendly turf, as thousands of boisterous supporters welcomed him, giving him the opportunity outside of his one-dimensional tweets to deliver an unfiltered message directly to the public.

In politics you have to advance the narrative, said Haynes, and getting out of Washington gives Trump the opportunity to shift his narrative away from sideshow issues, and onto the direction in which he wants to lead the country.

Like during his visit to Boeing in Charleston, S.C., on Friday, he should continue talking directly to the people who voted for him about what he is doing to make America great again: creating jobs, tightening safety, building stronger communities.

His voters are not in Washington, theyre not in New York City, and theyre not in LA. Trump gets his energy from them, and he needs to be seen out with them, talking to them, listening to them, interacting with them, and being energized by them. They are his true source of power.

And he should go to where that power lies and spend his time there, said Haynes.

By being their president in their backyard, he forces the media to cover him on those terms. And for him, that might just be a good thing.

*Mark Zuckerbergs manifesto, penned clearly in response to accusations leveled in the wake of the US election, is a scary, dystopian document. It shows that Facebook  launched, in Zuckerbergs own words, to extend peoples capacity to build and maintain relationships  is turning into something of an extraterritorial state run by a small, unelected government that relies extensively on algorithms for social engineering.

In 2012, Zuckerberg addressed future Facebook investors in a letter: People sharing more  even if just with their close friends or families  creates a more open culture and leads to a better understanding of the lives and perspectives of others. We believe that this . . . helps people get exposed to a greater number of diverse perspectives. By helping people form these connections, we hope to rewire the way people spread and consume information.

Whatever those beliefs were based on, they have largely failed the test of time. Instead of creating stronger relationships, Facebook has spawned anxieties and addictions that are the subject of academic studies from Portugal to Australia. Some studies have determined that using Facebook detracts from a users life satisfaction.

A Danish experiment in 2015, involving people weaned from Facebook for a week and a control group that kept using it, showed that people on the social network are 55 percent more likely to feel stressed; one source of that stress is envy of the glossified lives reported by other users. Users well-being, research has showed, only tends to increase when they have meaningful interactions  such as long message exchanges  with those who are already close to them.

In his latest manifesto, Zuckerberg uses parenting groups as an example of something his company does right. But recent research shows that some new mothers use Facebook to obtain validation of their self-perception as good parents, and failing to get enough such validation causes depressive symptoms.

As for the rewired information infrastructure, it has helped to chase people into ideological silos and feed them content that reinforces confirmation biases. Facebook actively created the silos by fine-tuning the algorithm that lies at its center  the one that forms a users news feed.

The algorithm prioritizes what it shows a user based, in large measure, on how many times the user has recently interacted with the poster and on the number of likes and comments the post has garnered.

In other words, it stresses the most emotionally engaging posts from the people to whom you are drawn  during an election campaign, a recipe for a filter bubble and, whats more, for amplifying emotional rather than rational arguments.

Zuckerberg writes: In recent campaigns around the world  from India and Indonesia across Europe to the United States  weve seen the candidate with the largest and most engaged following on Facebook usually wins.

In the Netherlands today, liberal Prime Minister Mark Ruttes page has 17,527 likes; that of fiery nationalist Geert Wilders, 174,188. In France, rationalist Emmanuel Macron has 165,850 likes, while far-right Marine Le Pen boasts 1.2 million. Helping them win is hardly something that would make Zuckerberg, a liberal, proud.

Zuckerberg doesnt want to correct this mistake and stop messing with what people see. Instead, the manifesto describes how Facebook sorts groups into meaningful and, presumably, meaningless ones. Instead of facilitating communication among people who are already part of social support groups offline, he wants to project Facebook relationships into the real world: Clearly, thats a more effective way of keeping competitors at bay.

The Facebook chief says his team is working on artificial intelligence that will be able to flag posts containing offensive information  nudity, violence, hate speech  and pass them on for final decisions by humans. If past experience is any indication, the overtaxed humans will merely rubber-stamp most decisions made by the technology, which Zuckerberg admits is still highly imperfect.

Zuckerberg casts Facebook as a global community that needs better policing, governance, nudging toward better social practices. Hes willing to allow some democracy and referendums, but the company will make the ultimate decision on the types of content people should see based on their behavior on Facebook.

Ultimately, this kind of social engineering affects peoples moods and behaviors. It can drive them toward commercial interactions or stimulate giving to good causes but it can also spill out into the real world in more troubling ways.

Its absurd to expect humility from Silicon Valley heroes. But Zuckerberg should realize that by trying to shape how people use Facebook, he may be creating a monster.

 2017, Bloomberg View

*Sure, it matters that President Trump has a historically low favorability rating. Then again, disliking the president isnt exactly a courageous act. Plenty of Americans, many who supported the president during the general election, dont like him. They do realize that politics is a trade-off.

Heres a more revealing question pollsters might ask: Do you like any better Sens. Chuck Schumer or Elizabeth Warren, pussy-hatted marchers griping about the patriarchy or the totalitarians blocking Education Secretary Betsy DeVos from walking into a public school?

Thats the choice #TheResistance has created for many moderate Republicans, right-leaning independents and movement conservatives concerned about Trump. That is to say, they offer no choice whatsoever. They offer plenty of hysteria, hypocrisy and conflation of conservatism with Trumpism for political gain.

For pundits on the left, the idea that conservatives can judge the presidency issue by issue is completely unacceptable. As important as attacking Trump is, depicting conservatives as fellow travelers who enable fascism confirms every preconceived notion they harbor about the right.

In a recent Atlantic piece by Peter Beinart titled The Anti-Anti-Trump Right, the subheadline reads: For conservative publications, the business model is opposing the left. And that means opposing the people who oppose Trump.

As is customary these days, the left, much like Trump, questions the motives of political foes rather than addressing their arguments. Beinart names the only two honorable conservatives in the entire country (according to Democrats), David Frum and David Brooks. For them, Beinart contends, conservatism is prudence, inherited wisdom, and a government that first does no harm.

Sure. Everyone else is a moral coward and a hypocrite for failing to support liberals in their fight to . . . in their fight to do what, exactly?

Its true that Trump doesnt exhibit prudence, reliance or inherited wisdom. Yet  and I know this is exceedingly difficult for Democrats to comprehend  neither does the alternative. If liberals were serious about convincing Republicans to abandon Trump in toto, theyd have something better to offer than Trump.

What seems to most vex critics of the anti-anti-Trump contingent (and I am mentioned in the Atlantic piece) is that conservatives arent appropriately agitated about the world that liberals see. But if its a zero-sum choice theyre offering, that includes picking Judge Neil Gorsuch over Planned Parenthood; tax cuts over teachers unions; Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu over Irans Holocaust deniers, and so on.

For example, many former free traders are now embracing the protectionist big-government policies of Trumpism. This is the kind of capitulation many fiscal conservatives feared. Again, the problem is that for free traders, Democrats are just as bad.

The average resistance fighters might dislike Trump. But they hate conservatism. By treating even the most milquetoast, run-of-the-mill Cabinet nominee as the worst thing that has ever happened to America, The Resistance gives conservatives the space to defend such long-standing political positions as school choice, immigration enforcement and deregulation.

Those who spend weeks after the election acting like the Electoral College was some kind of trick pulled on the country are not interested in rule of law. Theyre interested in Democrats.

Last week, when the president tactlessly attacked the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals on Twitter, the mantra was Trump doesnt respect the law!  even though Democrats had spent eight years attacking the Supreme Court over Citizens United. By Monday, when it was reported that there was an uptick in the deportation of illegal immigrants (there probably wasnt), the mantra had changed to Trump is upholding the law! (Do Democrats believe enforcing the law horrifies most voters?

As Thomas Sowell says, there are no solutions  only trade-offs. Trump brings an array of obvious and problematic issues with him to the presidency that may one day make his presidency untenable for Republicans. The Resistance, though, offers them absolutely nothing.

*Despite an unprecedented revolt by the agencys employees, Scott Pruitt was confirmed Friday to head the Environmental Protection Agency. But thatll hardly be the end of the rebellion.

As The New York Times reported, EPA staffers actively lobbied senators to oppose Pruitt  the kind of political activity normally off-limits for career civil servants.

Their motive: Like Trump, Pruitt is highly skeptical of the end all fossil-fuel use prescription for combatting climate change, and a big doubter that renewable-energy sources can meet the nations needs. More, hes a fierce opponent of over-regulation.

SEE ALSO Senate confirms EPA foe to run agency 0:0 The Senate confirmed a chief critic of the Environmental Protection...

Like Trumps other nominees, in other words, he understands the real-world consequences of EPA action, preferring a more balanced approach.

But the EPA is an aggressively activist agency. So its civil servants have no qualms about getting overtly political, and longstanding tradition be damned.

Then, too, Trump has vowed to reduce the EPAs size  which puts comfy EPA jobs at risk. As one union leader said of the agency protests he helped lead: Its in our interests to do this.

Obviously  but its not necessarily in Americas best interests.

Civil servants are supposed to be nonpolitical, disinterested experts who can professionally execute the orders of their political overseers. Sadly, thats increasingly not the case  witness the scandalous Obama-era IRS war on Tea Party nonprofits.

Myron Ebell of Trumps transition team told the Times that the EPA staffers campaign to stop Pruitt suggests its probably time to look at reforming the civil service laws.

It certainly is. And that could mean an even bigger earthquake in Washington than a shift in environmental policies  one the folks at the EPA would regret even more.

*From the ranting over President Trumps comments on the two-state solution to the revival of the vile dual loyalty charge against American Jews, liberals have gone unhinged over Trump and Israel.

Talking of the Palestinian-Israeli conflict Wednesday, Trump said: Im looking at a two-state and a one-state [solution], and I like the one that both parties like.

The New York Times huffed that hed dangerously backed away; the LA Times, that hed demolished the two-state solution. The Daily News snarked of his ignorance.

Sorry, the ignorance is all on the part of Trumps critics. He simply declined to endorse a Palestinian state for now, preferring instead to defer to the parties.

For the record, a poll out of Israel on Wednesday showed that most Israelis (55 percent) back two states  yet only a minority of Palestinians (44 percent) do.

Israelis have long been open to a Palestinian state, if their security is assured. Palestinian leaders have spurned countless offers for just that. The barrier is that they wont accept the existence of the Jewish state.

Meanwhile, at a Senate confirmation hearing Thursday, Sen. Bob Menendez (D-NJ) grilled Trumps pick for US envoy to Israel, David Friedman, on his loyalty to America.

We cannot have an ambassador who will bend to Israel, Menendez said, demanding the nominee affirm his loyalty and commitment to the United States.

True, Friedman has been fervent about his support for Israel. But thats no reason to question his allegiance. Doing so only feeds anti-Semitic slurs that American Jews put Israels interests above their own nations.

All this simply because Trump wants a new approach to Mideast policy. And why not? The old one sure hasnt worked.

*Ive been wondering lately how the rest of the world views the political happenings in the United States. My only glimpse on this had come through the US media, which presented an unpleasant picture but is completely untrustworthy. So I decided to see for myself.

With my wife having a bun in the oven and lacking sufficient funds to travel the world, I had to choose my destination carefully. It had to be somewhere I could get a flavor for a large swath of the planets population within a short period of time  and be relatively close.

Paris was out because I dont speak French. Berlin was out because my German is nearly as bad as my English. China was too far and expensive, plus the whole language barrier thing again.

So I chose Ireland.

We went there on our honeymoon in 2015, so I knew the lay of the land. They speak English, and so do most of the tourists. Dublin is a truly international city, crawling with travelers from every corner of the planet.

If youve never been to the Emerald Isle, I highly recommend it. From the east coast its an affordable and fairly short flight. Its beautiful, the people are friendly, you can understand the media, and its worth it for the thrill of driving on the wrong side of the car on the wrong side of the road.

In the next few weeks Ill recount what I heard, read and saw of the people in Ireland  many of whom were visitors like us  and how they view the United States and what our media this week started to call, in oddly uniform fashion, chaos. But first I wanted to tell you what happened to me while touring formerly violence-ravaged areas of Belfast and later that night at a traditional Irish show in Dublin.

Ireland is two countries with a shared culture and history. Its interesting  fascinating, really  but its also a place trapped by its past.

Its not just trapped in its past; its almost a prisoner to it.

I bring this up not to mock the Irish  its their past, they can do with it what they like. I mention it because I fear I see it happening here, to a degree.

I didnt notice it in 2015, mostly because we didnt travel to Northern Ireland. But this time I was looking for something  I had no idea what.

On a black cab tour of Belfast, we went first to the Protestant area of the city that saw the most violence in what they call the troubles, which is a very British way of referring to decades of violence, bombings and thousands of deaths.

But the troubles, which ended with the Good Friday Agreement in 1998, are everywhere. Or at least reminders are.

Houses are covered in murals to the martyred dead. Not small murals, but whole sides of houses. The neighborhood is covered in them. The Catholic section is no different  faces and reminders of the dead are everywhere.

The ones that stood out the most to me were, on the Catholic side, to Bobby Sands who, along with nine other Irish Republican Army followers, starved themselves to death in 1981, and those featuring King William III, also known as William of Orange.

Many people there personally knew Sands and his compatriots, but William the Orange has been dead since 1702. So why him?

At the Battle of Boyne in 1690, King William defeated King James II, essentially ridding Ireland of Catholic rulers and claiming the island for Protestants.

Catholicism obviously returned, especially in the Republic of Ireland, where it dominates. But Catholics and Protestants in Ireland are still angry or joyous about that July 1, 327 years ago.

It informs so much of what still happens, in the north especially. Theyve lost much of the religion, but the anger, the hatred and mistrust, remain.

Events that had no bearing on their lives, that didnt affect them or anyone they know, still inspire distrust and, in sporadic historical bursts, murder on both sides.

Politics in the United States havent reach that point, yet, but the pot does appear to be starting to boil. Friendships have been lost. Family members no longer speak to each other over political divisions that, in the grand scheme of things, wont amount to a memory.

But Americans have been convinced the person who occupies 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. is either their savior or will be their end. Neither is true. Just like some Irish are convinced their neighbor is their enemy because they hold slightly different religious views, a growing number of Americans cant fathom that some people disagree with them politically and are willing to vandalize their property or physically attack them.

This unhinged behavior comes primarily from the left, but it cant help but lead, if unchecked, to retaliatory behavior from the right. Yet dating back to the Obama years, Democrats refuse to denounce the violence committed for their agenda. In fact, they freely use the rhetoric that stokes the anger around it.

Old divisions are manifesting themselves as chasms and in dangerous ways and being passed off as passion. Undiffused, irrational anger funneled toward people because they believe in limited government will blow if rational thought is not reintroduced. Its haunted Ireland for centuries, and to this day.

We are better than that. We have to be better than this.

*Twenty million. That is the number foisted upon us by the Obama administration and all of its believers as to how many people got health insurance because of his signature health care program and how many will lose it if the evil Republicans tinker with the program; i.e., repeal and replace. Have you ever seen the figures behind that 20 million number? No you have not because it is a phantom number. Like the 97% of scientists believing in global warming  sorry, climate change. Or that the day of the Super Bowl has the highest number of domestic violence incidences. The Left repeats things often enough, echoed by the compliant media, that they begin to believe their own lies.

The Affordable Care Act (ACA aka Obamacare) brought a sledgehammer to something they should have brought a ball-peen hammer to fix. It should have addressed only the uninsured plus the major challenge for the rest of us: pre-existing conditions. Instead, because they really wanted to make our health care system single payer (i.e. government run), they gave us a slew of new taxes (most of them hidden) and really covered very few new people outside of Medicaid. The real number appears to be about 2.2 million gaining coverage outside of Medicaid in 2013-2015. That should have happened through normal hiring and other processes. Medicaid added 11.8 million covered during that period so the real number is 14 million new people with insurance.

We have previously discussed the fact that many of those 11.8 million may have health insurance, but no health care because of the lack of physicians who accept Medicaid with its low reimbursement rates. People cannot find doctors in most rural areas. The doctors they might get in densely populated urban areas may require hours for transit to/from for services.

One of the elements of proposals floated by Republicans is a cap on how much an employer can pay for an employee's health insurance. I never like caps like this. For example, if we had not changed insurance companies we would have exceeded the caps with a $12,000 deductible. Arbitrary caps are just that -- arbitrary. For example, the IRS still thinks a $25 gift to a customer is appropriate or even achievable. These caps dont work.

Here are some suggestions for the Republicans while they are recreating the system bludgeoned by ACA:

1. Get the government out of the private sector health care. Too many requirements for people to have too many criteria loaded on their health insurance. Just require a clear, concise statement by the insurance companies of what is included and what is not included in a policy. Let the companies develop their options to meet the marketplace.

2. The only insurance people should be required to buy is catastrophic insurance or what was referred to as hospitalization (if you end up in a hospital from a traffic or skiing accident.) A 26-year-old should not be required to buy comprehensive insurance that will never be used. That is why they have not participated in Obamacare. That grand experiment failed. If the 20-somethings do not get insurance through work, they are not going to pay exorbitant rates to subsidize their parents and grandparents.

3. Dispense with the penalties and the enforcement by the IRS -- a despicable aspect of Obamacare. A lot of people got hit with penalties this past year and the Obama administration did not tell the world how many owe the government money because of premium supports that were overstated. Stop with the punishment. Emphasize rewards for acquiring insurance.

4. Lets get real about FDA approval of drugs. Not allowing legalization of medications tested and used in Europe is absurd. Not allowing people with virtual death sentences from disease to try an experimental process or medication is near criminal. Having drug tests taking eons and costing hundreds of millions is government in overdrive.

5. For the 9,548th time, the biggest problem with Obamacare was it increased demand, but did nothing about increasing supply (doctors, nurses, hospitals). There may not be a need for more hospitals as stays are shortening, but it does no good to have insurance if you cannot see a practitioner. We need to push down some services that do not need doctors or dentists to lower-level practitioners to increase the supply, especially in primary care. We need to address this issue and no one is looking at it. We keep building law schools to create lawyers to sue doctors, but few, if any, new medical schools.

6. Pricing for services has to become more of a marketplace. People need to know what the cost of their services are going to be before they are incurred. Being told not to worry because insurance will pay for your medical services is not good enough.

7. Please, please, please stop this nonsense that you have to be at a doctors office to get medical advice. In an era where we have modern communication including Skype where a doctor can physically see a patient why does everyone need to travel across town, sit in a waiting room with people coughing and sneezing to get a diagnosis on simple matters as if it is still 1966? The government insists on doctors only billing for office visits. I beg my doctor to just tell them I was there, give me the prescription and bill me, but no. That is what happens when government bureaucrats and policy wonks make up health care rules.

8. Reasonable levels of deductibles have to be established. Having significant deductibles is good to put the power of decision making back into the hands of the consumer. But $10,000 deductibles do not cut it for average Americans. This is where Health Savings Accounts need to come back into play after being attacked by Obamacare.

9. We need to consider high-risk pools for people with significant pre-existing conditions. These people are the most challenging part of the medical system and the reason people not in this group have the greatest fear. They fear becoming part of this group and not having proper coverage.

These are just some of the points that need to be addressed in this round of revamping our medical system. Dr. Tom Price, Secretary of Health and Human Services, understands these points because he was actually a practicing orthopedic surgeon. This is unlike the current system that was designed by a bunch of policy wonks. Price has had a plan ready for years to replace ACA despite the lie that has been perpetuated that Republicans have no plan, much like the lie about 20 million losing coverage.

Let us remember Obamacare actually threw millions of Americans out of their plans. I was one of them. That actually happened versus the projected number of people who might lose their plans in hypothetical scenarios.

The idea is that we can replace this government controlled top-down plan with one that focuses on control by citizens and their medical professionals.

P.S. They now say (Robert Reich/MoveOn.org) it will be 32 million losing their insurance. They are unhinged.

*The more you see something shocking, the less shocking it appears, and the more something outrageous happens, the less outrageous it seems to be. That is how a culture becomes desensitized, and that is how the abnormal becomes normalized. But when it comes to the governments attack on our religious freedoms, it is our sacred duty to remain shocked and outraged. Such things cannot continue to happen in America if we are to be the land of the free and the home of the brave.

According to the Washington Supreme Court, when Christian florist Barronelle Stutzman declined to do the floral arrangements for a same-sex wedding, she violated the state's anti-discrimination laws, since she allegedly discriminated based on her customers sexual orientation by refusing to participate in his wedding ceremony.

Attorney David French is correct in emphasizing how this ruling should affect us (he penned these words shortly after the verdict was announced): If you care about the Bill of Rights, the rights of conscience, or even the English language, theres a chance that this morning you felt a disturbance in the Force  as if the Founders cried out in rage and were suddenly silenced.

As French clearly explains, she was not discriminating on the basis of sexual orientation. She was making a decision not to help celebrate an action, a form of expression. She would no more celebrate a gay wedding than she would any form of immorality, gay or straight. To dispense with her argument, the court did what numerous progressive courts have done: It rewrote the law. It rejected what it called the status/conduct distinction, and essentially interpreted the word orientation to also mean action.

In a million lifetimes, the Founders could never have countenanced such an outrage. In fact, I doubt that the leading pioneer gay activists could have countenanced something this extreme when they launched their movement less than 50 years ago.

It is imperative, then, that we not lose our sense of shock and outrage just because things like this are becoming increasingly common. For the sake of our kids and our grandkids  not to mention for the sake of our contemporaries  we cannot become desensitized.

What the court has said in Washington echoes what other courts have said around the country: Regardless of your religious or moral convictions, you must participate in gay weddings if your business provides any service related to such events. Otherwise, you are guilty of discrimination. (This, of course, is just the tip of the iceberg. There are many other examples of the government or corporations or schools punishing Christians for their faith.)

What this means is that a gay couple could go into a bakery in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, home to tens of thousands of ultra-Orthodox Jews who primarily live and do business among themselves, that couple could ask the devout Jewish baker to bake a cake for their wedding, and that baker could be put of business if he refused to comply. (Stop for a moment and try to imagine this scenario in your mind. It really is unthinkable.)

Or that same gay couple could go into a bakery in the most religious part of Dearborn, Michigan, home to tens of thousands of Muslims, some of them very religious, and a Muslim baker could be put of business for declining to participate in their wedding. How could this be?

Are religious Jewish photographers required to shoot Christian weddings under penalty of law? Of course not.

Are devout Muslim photographers required to shoot Hindu weddings under penalty of law? Obviously not.

Why then are Christian bakers and florists and photographers required to provide their services for gay weddings under penalty of law?

To say it again: This is an absolute outrage, and to shrug our shoulders with indifference is to insult Jesus, to insult our Founders, and to insult our brothers and sisters in the faith.

What if a Christian woman went into the store of an Orthodox Jewish woodworker, asking that craftsman to make a crucifix for her to wear around her neck, then taking him to court when he explained that, as a religious Jew, he could not take her order, since that would be sacrilegious for him. Would the courts really rule for the Christian woman and claim that the Orthodox Jewish craftsman was guilty of discrimination based on religion? To do so would send shockwaves through the Jewish community nationwide, and rightly so.

What if this same Christian woman went into the store of a religious Muslim printer, asking him to print flyers declaring, The Koran is wrong. Jesus really is the Son of God?

When she took him to court for declining her business, would the courts really rule on her behalf and claim that the religious Muslim printer was guilty of discrimination based on religion? To do so would send shockwaves through the Muslim community nationwide, and rightly so.

The Washington ruling is no less outrageous and should send shockwaves through the Christian community nationwide.

What the courts have effectively done is to elevate sexual orientation to the most privileged status  trumping freedoms of speech and religion and conscience  and to rule that, businesses must not only serve gays and lesbians but also must participate in their lifestyle choices, with severe penalties for failure to comply.

Remarkably, when a gay baker declined to make a cake with a biblical verse against homosexuality and the case was taken to court, the court ruled in favor of the baker and against the Christian. How can this possibly be?

I wrote on Thursday that Christian leaders must not be silent about the Washington ruling, calling for specific points of action.

Today, Im saying something even more basic: If you are a person of faith and conscience, you must not lose your outrage.

*The liberal media have awakened from their eight years of slumber. The Trump presidency has turned dozing Obama lapdogs into insanely rabid Trump attack dogs.

Over the past few weeks, the media has been involved in a feeding frenzy trying to harm the new administration by focusing on one fake news scandal after another.

The most recent controversy involves the resignation of former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn and his conversations with Sergey Kislyak, the Russian ambassador to the United States during the transition period for the Trump administration.

In these discussions, there was a mention of the new U.S. sanctions issued against the Russian government by the Obama administration. These conversations were recorded and the contents of the call were leaked to the Washington Post in violation of the law. Flynn was either forgetful or not truthful when discussing the issue with Vice President Mike Pence, who said on Face the Nation that the National Security Adviser did not discuss the issue of sanctions with the Russian ambassador.

After giving Pence false information, Flynn had to resign, but he seemingly did not break any laws when he discussed sanctions or other issues with the Russian ambassador. In presidential transitions, it is commonplace for officials in a new administration to make contacts with foreign leaders. What is unique in this case is the leaking of the conversation to the media and the active effort within the massive federal bureaucracy to harm the Trump presidency. In that case, laws were broken and an immediate investigation is warranted.

Instead of probing the leaks or the bureaucratic resistance to the new president, the mainstream media is focusing on the Russian connection and speculating if the Donald Trump is being blackmailed. They are pushing the narrative that the Russians stole the election for Trump and he is beholden to them. The Flynn story just allows the media to engage in wild, unsubstantiated speculation about Trumps so-called Russian involvement and mention that this is another possible Watergate scandal.

Fortunately, our new president is not a shrinking violet and can return fire to the media. Yesterday, in his first post inaugural news conference, President Trump held court for 77 minutes and enjoyed himself while scolding the media for their dishonest practices. He reserved special anger for CNNs biased reporting and celebrated the low ratings of their host Don Lemons evening program.

To understand the reason for new aggressive attitude toward the Trump administration, it is vital to recognize that the media is overwhelmingly liberal. This has been the case for decades and it is getting worse, not better. For example, the Center for Public Integrity investigated all 2016 presidential campaign donations linked to journalists. An astounding 96 percent of all journalist contributions, $382,000, were given to Hillary Clintons campaign, whereas only 4 percent of donations, $14,000, benefited the Trump campaign. Trumps meager fundraising haul was on par with his almost non-existent positive media coverage, no wonder he feels hostility toward the Fourth Estate.

The medias relationship to the president was much different during the Obama years. While Barack Obama was president, most reporters acted like cheerleaders advocating his agenda, not tough investigators probing controversies in his administration. There could have been investigations galore on Obama administration scandals such as Fast and Furious, Benghazi, IRS targeting of Tea Party groups, and many more.

Instead, as noted by Peter Hasson of the Daily Caller, President Obama was asked plenty of softball questions during his eight years in office. For instance, during his first year in office, Harry Smith of CBS asked, Golf. What does it do for you? A better question would have been, Mr. President, with all of the problems at home and abroad, how have you found the time to play 306 rounds of golf during your presidency?

Not to be outdone, Jeff Zeleny of the New York Times asked President Obama, what enchanted him the most during his first 100 days in office? It was a pathetic question from an enchanted reporter working at a newspaper that was a journalistic outpost for Obama administration.

Even mainstream Republican and former George W. Bush White House Press Secretary Ari Fleischer admitted that the press had gone soft on President Obama and now they want to change their tune and get more aggressive with Donald Trump.

While they attempt to taint Trump with accusations of Watergate and other ridiculous hyperbole, millions of Americans have stopped watching their programs or reading their drivel in print and online. As Fleischer noted, a recent Gallup poll showed that trust in press reporting accurately and fairly is at an all-time low.

This intense attack on our new president just reaffirms why the public has such a low regard for the media. In the battle of Trump versus the media, it would be a good idea to bet on the president who already defeated his political opponents and the media to get elected.

If President Trump can make speeches, conduct news conferences and go on social media to communicate directly with the American people, he can get his unfiltered message to the public without the bias and negativity of the media. All he needs the media for is to be his favorite target of ridicule.

*What the naive among us need to understand is that the left plays hardball. Liberals subscribe to an end-justifies-the-means philosophy. They are not fair. They don't intend to be fair. They believe they are entitled to advance their America-transforming agenda whether in or out of power, and no amount of wishful thinking can alter that reality.

They will say and do practically anything to further their vision for America, and it doesn't matter if they did the opposite yesterday. A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little conservative minds.

The leftist machine purports to be opposed to Trump for his allegedly dastardly actions, but he has barely had time to get started (though he deserves great credit for what he has done so far). Truth be told, liberals' opposition springs not from what he's done -- other than the travel ban -- but from who he is and the threat he represents to their agenda.

They told us he would be a tyrannical autocrat, and just four weeks into his term, they claim to have him dead to rights on the charge. Yet Trump has not engaged in any illegal conduct or committed any lawless overreaches. President Obama, on the other hand, was habitually lawless, and the left, far from being concerned, reveled in it. Ends and means.

Understand this: The left has no evidence that Trump colluded with Russia to affect our election. It is absurd that we are even forced to talk about this. Smear with innuendo and slander -- that's liberals' MO.

In case you haven't noticed, these professional malcontents have organized throughout the nation, with more than a little help from the community organizer in ex-chief, Barack Obama. They have placed themselves throughout the nation to make mischief -- not the kind you smile at but the kind designed to bring down a duly elected president.

With remarkable foresight and patience, progressives have conspired for decades to plant themselves in America's important institutions, from the universities to the halls of government in secure civil service jobs. Many of these people are working overtime inside and outside government to undermine, scandalize, sabotage and ultimately bring down the Trump administration in its incipiency. That tactic is a lot easier than trying to block his desperately needed reform agenda on the merits.

I strongly suspect that leftists within our intelligence agencies criminally leaked classified information to corroborate their claim that Trump colluded with Russia to interfere with the presidential election. They thought they'd hit pay dirt with reports that before Trump took office, his national security adviser, Michael Flynn, had conversations with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak allegedly about reviewing the recent sanctions Obama had imposed on Russia.

Can you imagine the salivating? Here's the smoking gun. Flynn talked to Russia. Trump likes Russian President Vladimir Putin. Russia hacked the United States. Trump won the election. Therefore, Trump colluded with Putin to engineer his election victory over Hillary Clinton. That is one convoluted syllogism, isn't it?

The left doesn't care about the truth of the matter. Once liberals obtained what they considered a colorable morsel of damning evidence, they insisted their fears about Trump were already vindicated. He was guilty as charged. Except that he wasn't.

Flynn has stated that his conversation didn't touch on sanctions. The New York Times, in its story reporting that Trump campaign aides had repeated contacts with Russian intelligence agents, admitted it had seen no evidence of cooperation or collusion between the Trump team and the Russians regarding the election. That little tidbit has not found its way into any headline in the mainstream media.

Liberals hate Trump, and they hate that they lost the election, and they are not going to tolerate it. I hope the rest of America understands that.

They are not only disgracefully pretending they have hard evidence of misconduct leading directly to Trump but also ignoring the egregious misconduct of the leakers and the real threat that poses to national security.

Trump got off to an incredibly impressive start, but liberals have now delivered a blow to his momentum, and they are poised to finish the job. They are strategically placed in our cultural institutions and throughout our vast bureaucracy and are coordinating in every state to stage planned protests that look spontaneous. Richly funded by George Soros and other like-minded America haters, they are inspired by the shadow leadership of former President Obama and his activist organization formed for this very purpose.

I will not defend misconduct on the part of elected officials and their appointees -- if it actually occurs -- just because they are Republicans. But I am not going to sit by silently as the left continues to smear and sabotage this newly inaugurated president based on shards of facts that don't prove their allegations.

I realize that nothing we do will stop the left or dampen its single-minded determination to destroy Trump and preserve Obama's radical agenda, but we can prevent the left from succeeding if we fight back with equal energy and commitment. But that will be impossible unless we fully recognize what's going on -- the tactics of the left and liberals' ruthlessness. We are, in effect, in a war that we didn't start.

So please keep your eyes open and prepare to fight back.

In the meantime, let's pray that President Trump will not be unduly distracted by these efforts and can focus on advancing an agenda that will restore economic growth and shore up America's national security. His news conference on Thursday gives me great confidence that President Trump fully understands what the left is doing. He is undeterred and undistracted -- and pressing forward with his agenda. The left, in turn, probably now understands that it has unleashed a tiger.

*Lowry and Ponnuru are two of the writers I most admire (at a time when that group is shrinking fast). If they make an argument with which I disagree, I'm inclined to question my own judgment. So I remain open to the possibility that they are right. But it seems to me that their willingness to believe that nationalism, as opposed to patriotism, can be benign is not convincing.

Everything they assert about the naturalness of nationalism -- it arises out of the same soil as love of family, community, church, etc. -- is true of patriotism. It's true, as Lowry and Ponnuru note, that the left has discredited itself over the years by its hostility to sincere patriotism.

Patriotism is enough -- it needs no improving or expanding.

Nationalism is something else. It's hard to think of a nationalist who does not pervert patriotism into something aggressive -- against foreign adversaries, domestic minorities or both. When Mexican President Lazaro Cardenas nationalized the oil industry in 1938 (expropriating the property of hated foreigners), he was favored with a chanting crowd of 100,000 supporters in Mexico City. Gamal Abdel Nasser's nationalism found expression in nationalization (of the Suez Canal in that case) and also in aggressive war against Israel and Yemen. Vladimir Putin's nationalism has been characterized by demonization of the United States in domestic propaganda and his invasion of neighboring countries. Benito Mussolini believed in reclaiming Italy's lost glory and invaded Abyssinia (Ethiopia) to fulfill his vision.

Our own history is not pristine. We've had our moments of belligerent nationalism. The Mexican-American War, for example, was a pure land grab. Lowry and Ponnuru cite President Lincoln as an example of a benign nationalist, but he recognized corrupt nationalism in his own time. As a member of Congress, he deplored the Mexican-American War in the strongest terms, accusing President Polk of misleading the public about on whose territory hostilities began, and thundering, "The blood of this war, like the blood of Abel, is crying to Heaven." I'm not proposing that we return California to the Mexicans (though, considering their voting patterns, it's tempting), but the war that brought California (and other states) into our union was not our finest hour. It was, arguably, the hour of maximal American nationalism.

I believe that nationalism is a demagogue's patriotism. Demagogues of the right and left both play upon natural and even benevolent instincts for their own purposes. The left's demagogues distort love of justice and equality into a leveling desire to scapegoat others. Bernie Sanders doesn't just appeal to people's desire for fairness; he encourages them to believe that they are the victims of the "1 percent," who are siphoning all of the nation's wealth for themselves. If you are poor, Sanders claims, it is because someone who is rich has taken your share.

Demagogues of the right -- or nationalists -- argue that our troubles are the result of immigrants taking our jobs or foreigners stealing our factories. This is not natural love of home and hearth or reverence for America's founding ideals. It is scapegoating.

Which brings us to the proximate cause of this debate: President Trump. Far from deepening our appreciation of our history or institutions, he embodies the reasons to be wary of demagoguery in the name of country. In him we see strutting nationalism ("America first!") but little true patriotism. He claims to pursue America's interests, yet has shockingly little respect for the nation he heads. He doesn't love the country enough to have familiarized himself with the basics of our system. In one debate, he said judges "sign bills," and in a Capitol Hill meeting with congressmen, he praised Article XII of the Constitution. What patriot can claim that we lack the moral authority to criticize Turkey's crackdown on independent journalists, or impugn this country as no better than Russia when it comes to political assassination? As Trump demonstrates, nationalism is not patriotism in a hurry; it is resentment draped in the flag.

In his concurrence with Lowry/Ponnuru, John O'Sullivan indirectly makes a similar point, defending Trump's disavowal of American exceptionalism. O'Sullivan offers that this is delicacy on Trump's part. "He doesn't want to humiliate the foreigners who will shortly be losing to America. ... When you intend to shoot a man, it costs nothing to be polite."

That's not my idea of patriotism.

*Fans demanded perfection in the real people behind the characters. Hollywood studios once kept full-time media fixers on staff to protect the imaginary but effective persona of a star. We might have guessed that Jimmy Stewart was a Republican or that Elizabeth Taylor voted Democrat, but nobody knew for sure.

The public image was bigger than life and largely mythic. Both star and fan wanted it that way. Such a system was one part gossamer and two parts cotton candy, bound to wither and melt. And so it did. Politics and show biz blurred in different ways.

During World War II, when patriotism flourished from sea to shining sea, many stars famously took up the nation's colors, and many of those who didn't or couldn't went off to entertain the troops. Bob Hope and his fun under fire became an institution, usually barely behind the front lines. Al Jolson was a blast from the past, earning new celebrity and working himself to death during the Korean War. Pride in country flourished everywhere.

By the early '50s, with the Cold War changing everything, pride turned to paranoia. Hollywood stars became victims of McCarthy hysteria. Popular performers were accused of being card-carrying Communists. Some were; many were not. A blacklist grew. Reputations of innocent men and women were ruined by smear. Hysteria eventually passed; Hollywood regained its footing; and politicians and performers swam together in the mix of glamour, money and mutual celebrity.

Frank Sinatra, once a close pal of President John F. Kennedy, was abruptly exiled from his company when the president's brother Bobby Kennedy thought Sinatra's mob connections made him not worth the risk to JFK's reputation. Ol' Blue Eyes was enraged. He became a Republican and campaigned for Ronald Reagan.

Friendships blossomed across party lines, and neither party partisanship nor ideology colored all of show biz red or blue. Alas, that was then, and this is now. Ideology and the digital devices of social media quickly turn voices, which in another era would have been sotto voce in cocktail party conversations, into screeds and rants.

Meryl Streep, the last authentic movie star, who brilliantly portrays characters whose political points of view she would no doubt shun, made her a superstar. But even she can't resist the raw thrill of shrill partisanship, playing to Hollywood fashion with denunciations of President Trump at the Golden Globes and in a speech on behalf of LGBTQ rights to the Human Rights Campaign.

She went off-script to describe herself as a target of "brownshirts and bots and worse," sending new generations of fans to Google to find out what she meant. The president, as usual, couldn't resist making it a spectacle in a crossfire of hostile tweets.

With the Academy Awards coming up, some of the aspiring winners are crafting provocative political harangues to further coarsen popular culture. It's not just pop culture. Harvard Law School professor Cass Sunstein calls the political divide the result of "partyism," which he describes as a visceral dislike of anyone of the opposing political party. In his new book, "#Republic: Divided Democracy in the Age of Social Media," he says partyism is not as bad as racism, but by certain measures it exceeds racism in poisoning the national conversation.

"In 1960," he writes, citing public opinion polls, "just 5 percent of Republicans and 4 percent of Democrats said that they would feel 'displeased' if their child married outside their political party. By 2010, those numbers had reached 49 and 33 percent, respectively -- far higher than the percentage of people who would be 'displeased' if their child married someone with a different skin color."

Somewhere in Hollywood, someone is even plotting to remake the movie "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner," revising the story of a daughter who brings home her black fiance to meet her white liberal parents to the story of the daughter of "progressive" parents who brings home a beau in a cap emblazoned with the phrase "Make America Great Again." The test of tolerance for our enlightened time or not, canoodling with your sweetie on a rainy night to the strains of Sinatra, strings and brass was more fun.

*There is only one thing more appalling than the Washington Supreme Courts 9-0 ruling against religious liberty on Friday. It is the silence of Christian leaders across America, leaders who choose convenience over confrontation, leaders who would rather be popular than prophetic, leaders who prefer the favor of people over the favor of God. Shame on these silent leaders. Today is a day to stand.

There are, of course, the handful of expected Christian voices protesting the courts outrageous decision, as these justices ruled unanimously against florist Barronelle Stutzman, claiming that she discriminated against a longtime gay customer (named Robert Ingersoll) when she told him she couldnt make the floral arrangement for his upcoming gay wedding, despite the fact that she had served him for years and despite her recommending three other florists who could do the arrangements for his wedding.

Instead, the court ruled that this 72-year-old grandmother who had employed gay workers and served gay customers for years, was required by law to participate in a gay wedding, even though this constituted a direct violation of her religious beliefs  beliefs which have been consistent and almost universally held among Christians for the last 2,000 years.

Not only so, but the court upheld the attack on her personal assets as well  her house, her savings, her retirement funds  by requiring her to pay the attorneys fees that the ACLU racked up in suing her, fees which could reach as high as one million dollars.

Previously, when Washington Attorney General Bob Ferguson, an aggressive liberal who brought the suit against Barronnelle, announced he would accept $2,000 in penalties, $1 in fees and costs, plus an agreement not to discriminate in the future and to end further litigation, Barronnelle rejected the proposed settlement.

She explained, Your offer reveals that you dont really understand me or what this conflict is all about. Its about freedom, not money. I certainly dont relish the idea of losing my business, my home, and everything else that your lawsuit threatens to take from my family, but my freedom to honor God in doing what I do best is more important. Washingtons constitution guarantees us freedom of conscience in all matters of religious sentiment. I cannot sell that precious freedom. You are asking me to walk in the way of a well-known betrayer, one who sold something of infinite worth for 30 pieces of silver. That is something I will not do.

She continued, I pray that you reconsider your position. I kindly served Rob for nearly a decade and would gladly continue to do so. I truly want the best for my friend. Ive also employed and served many members of the LGBT community, and I will continue to do so regardless of what happens with this case. You chose to attack my faith and pursue this not simply as a matter of law, but to threaten my very means of working, eating, and having a home. If you are serious about clarifying the law, then I urge you to drop your claims against my home, business, and other assets and pursue the legal claims through the appeal process.

Today, on my radio show, shortly after the ruling was announced and with the full weight of the states ruling hanging over her head, she told me would do the same thing again (stating that when God changes His Word, she will change her mind), also stating without the slightest trace of bitterness that she would gladly serve Robert Ingersoll should he come into her store today.

Friends, what we are witnessing today is a breathtaking abuse of power, an extreme overreach by the government, a shocking example of LGBT activism out of control, yet over the next 7 days, church services will come and go without a word being spoken, and over the next 48 hours, the Christian blogosphere will remain relatively quiet. How can this be?

In the aftermath of the Holocaust, courageous Christian leader Basilea Schlink rebuked the silence of Christians immediately after Kristallnacht, the Night of Broken Glass (November 9, 1938), when the Nazis set synagogues on fire and vandalized Jewish places of business, also killing and beating some Jewish victims as well. And while I am not comparing gay activists and their allies to Nazis and I am not comparing the Washington courts ruling to Kristallnacht, I am comparing the silence of Christians then and now.

Please stop and read these words carefully.

Schlink wrote, We are personally to blame. We all have to admit that if we, the entire Christian community, had stood up as one man and if, after the burning of the synagogues, we had gone out on the streets and voiced our disapproval, rung the church bells, and somehow boycotted the actions of the S.S., the Devils vassals would probably not have been at such liberty to pursue their evil schemes. But we lacked the ardor of love  love that is never passive, love that cannot bear it when its fellowmen are in misery, particularly when they are subjected to such appalling treatment and tortured to death. Indeed, if we had loved God, we would not have endured seeing those houses of God set ablaze; and holy, divine wrath would have filled our souls. . . . Oh, that we as Germans and as Christians would stand aghast and cry out ever anew, What have we done! At every further evidence of our guilt may we repeat the cry. (From her book Israel, My Chosen People: A German Confession Before God and the Jews.)

What adds to the tragic irony of the moment is that in recent weeks, designers have said they will no longer work with Melania Trump and stores have dropped Ivanka Trump product lines, not because of deeply held religious beliefs, which are explicitly protected by the First Amendment, but because of political differences. And these companies and individuals are being praised by liberal Americans for standing on their convictions. But when a Christian florist politely declines a gay couples request to design the floral arrangements for their wedding ceremony, she is taken to court and threatened with the loss of her business and all her personal assets.

Where is the righteous Christian indignation? And where are the bleeding-heart liberals who claim to care about the persecuted underdog? (Remember: The ACLU with its massive resources is leading the charge against Barronnelle.)

I can respect Christian leaders who try to stay out of the culture wars because they dont want to drive their LGBT neighbors and friends away from the gospel  as long as they speak up at times like this, when our fundamental liberties are being trashed and when a gracious Christian grandmother is being savaged by the state. But should they remain silent at a time like this, the next time they raise their voices on behalf of the LGBT community (and against the conservative evangelicals they so frequently attack) they will be shouting one message to the world: I am a hypocritical coward!

Let me urge you, then, to do three things: 1) share this article with others to help spread the word; 2) make a statement about this gross injustice however you can (on social media; to your family; from your pulpit  Im urging every pastor reading this column to say something to your flock the next opportunity you have); 3) go to this website to stand with Barronnelle and her team; 4) pray for God to awaken the Church of America.

Will you take a stand today?

*I recently watched Sen. Ted Cruz debate Bernie Sanders on the Future of the Affordable Care Act. Cruz was in top form, while Sanders was congenial but still deluded that we can all have free health care paid for with other peoples money.

The audience was from all around the country and presumably stacked with invitees from both sides. The moderators would call on audience members to ask pointed questions to specific candidates.

Ive written about one of the audience participants for Townhall in Obamacare Is a Job-Killer: Heres the Proof. LaRonda Hunter is a hair salon entrepreneur form Forth Worth, Texas. She began investing in Fantastic Sams family hair salon franchises about a dozen years ago. She now owns four salons but would like to open one or two more locations. Ms. Hunter explained her dilemma to Bernie Sanders. She employs something like 46 people and expansion would push her past the 49 worker threshold where Obamacare requires her to provide health coverage.

To his credit, Bernie Sanders did not back down and try to sugarcoat his response. He thinks employers like Hunter have a moral obligation to provide workers with health insurance policies, costing, say, $4,000 a year. Of course doing so would wipe out her profits and ultimately put her out of business. Thats fine with Sanders; in his opinion, not offering health coverage is an unfair advantage that makes it harder for Ms. Hunters competitors to offer coverage. Although he was being honest his response was nave. Many of the women who work for Hunter are working class, most of whom cannot afford to spend $350 per month on health coverage.

Employee health coverage is not merely the cost of doing business like Sanders thinks it should be. Health benefits is a non-cash portion of employee compensation. Absent Obamacare, Hunter would be indifferent whether her workers would collectively trade $4,000 in health coverage for $4,000 in pre-tax wages. The problem is: her workers are not indifferent to whether she pays them less cash and buys them health insurance. They presumably would look for work elsewhere if their gross pay fell by $350 per month. The large payroll processing firm ADP has found that about $45,000 per year is the threshold below which few workers take up employee health benefits.

The point Hunter should have made to Sanders is the decision to forgo health coverage is not her choice; its her workers collective choices. Because she wants to expand, Hunter would prefer her workers willingly enroll in coverage. But she also knows if workers refuse to (indirectly) pay for coverage by accepting lower take home pay, she would be stuck paying for it.

Another audience member was a nursing student pregnant with her second child. She wanted to make sure any Republican replacement plan would not force her and her husband to pay for their own prenatal, labor and delivery charges. I dont recall Cruzs answer, but he should have said any replacement plan should require insurers to offer coverage if she maintained continuous coverage (i.e. no gaps in coverage greater than 62 days). What he could not say is: why should the rest of us subsidize a $15,000 free medical benefit for her choices if she chooses not to maintain coverage?

Another audience member was a woman with Multiple Sclerosis, who had moved from Texas to Maryland in order to qualify for expanded Medicaid coverage. She pointedly asked Cruz twice if he would promise that she would not lose Medicaid eligibility under a GOP replacement plan. She did not say this but her annual medical care likely costs more than the U.S. median household income. To say the least her case is one where politicians fear to tread. How can you reassure people who lost the genetic lottery they will not slip through the cracks? Cruz did his best to explain how Medicaid is a poor quality health plan but his response did not suit her. She wanted his personal guarantee -- in a way that was legally-nonbinding but would haunt his political career for years to come.

If there was a common theme its that there are a lot of people whose lifestyles would be much improved if only other people would subsidize the cost of their health care. This gets back to a dirty little secret in the health policy community on willingness to pay for health care. The answer: nothing! Many people would prefer to pay nothing if left to their own devices. Many would go years without care -- even primary care -- until something bad happened. The liberal public health community is desperately grasping at straws trying to find the Holy Grail: perfect health literacy, great health care, provided cheaply on someone elses dime. Of course, thats impossible, which is why Obamacare is so hard to replace.

Devon M. Herrick, PhD is a health economist and senior fellow at the National Center for Policy Analysis.

*Does anyone seriously believe that Trump persuaded significant numbers of people at his press conference who didnt already love him?

EDITORS NOTE: The following is Jonah Goldbergs weekly newsletter, the G-File . Subscribe here to get the G-File delivered to your inbox on Fridays.

Dear Reader (Including the Dingo who cares not about your petty beauty contests),

Since most of this newsletter is going to vex friends, lets start with something that all right-thinking people can agree upon: If Neil deGrasse Tyson wants to continue being considered an intellectual, he should really stop talking (or at least stop tweeting).

Just before I started to pound out this dyspeptic cri de coeur of consternation, I saw this amuse-bouche of vapidity:

Almost all armed conflict in the history of the world came about because opposing sides believed different things to be true.  Neil deGrasse Tyson (@neiltyson) February 16, 2017

Now, in a reductionist kind of way, this is obviously true. When two people, two tribes, or two nations fight, they tend to have profound disagreements about who should win.

But the idea that people almost always go to war because they believe different things to be true is really quite ridiculous. Did Caesar, Alexander the Great, or Genghis Kahn have a giant war map in front of them demarking which nations agreed with them and which didnt? Oh, I would dearly love to conquer Gaul, will someone find out if they disagree with us on something?

What, pray tell, do Crips and Bloods really disagree on? (Note: I have no idea if they still exist, feel free to add any other gangs: Sharks and Jets, Dead Rabbits and the Bowery Boys, the Yancy Street Gang and Ben Grimm, whatever.) The prime mover of their disagreements isnt ideas but power, status, and, probably, the money that flows from them. They might invent grander arguments to defend their bellicosity, but those arguments are downstream of those primary motivations. Hitler believed some awful things, but he didnt invade France because of his disagreements with the French. He invaded France because he wanted to rule it. The disagreements were secondary. David Hume said, Reason is, and ought only to be the slave of the passions, and can never pretend to any other office than to serve and obey them. I dont fully subscribe to this view, but I dont think its entirely wrong either.

RELATED: How the Center Does Not Hold

Now Tyson is almost surely making what he believes to be a clever point about religion. And it is certainly true that there have been religious wars, some of them quite sincere. And some of them were populist justifications for wars of another motivation, proving yet again that scientific expertise doesnt automatically transfer to other realms of study. What he seems to want to suggest, however, is that if everyone agrees on the majestic sovereignty of science, there will be no more conflict. His global empire of Rationalia will usher in an era of eternal peace.

Not only is that incredibly, mind-bogglingly, and incandescently absurd and extremely creepy and dangerous. It is also  wait for it  profoundly unscientific.

Canine Flatulence as Far as the Eye Can See (or Smell)

Almost exactly a year ago, I wrote in this space:

Im reminded of a scene from Don Quixote: A man walks into the center of town and gathers a crowd for the show hes about to put on. The man picks up a dog and inserts a tube into its ass. The man then begins to inflate the canine like a balloon. The crowd watches, fascinated. The dog grows larger and rounder. Eventually, the man pulls the tube out and the air escapes loudly from the poor poochs rectum as it runs away. The performer turns to the crowd and asks something like: You think its easy to inflate a dog with a tube? That guy may be the best dog-inflator in the world. He may have tapped into something real  the need to see extreme reverse dog farting  but that doesnt mean we should make him president.

That scene came to mind Thursday as I watched the reaction to President Trumps press conference. My friend Mollie Hemingway captured a very widespread sentiment out there:

.@MZHemingway: I would watch a @realDonaldTrump press conference at any time of any day. Its just so entertaining. #SpecialReport pic.twitter.com/IHhH6vZcnA  Fox News (@FoxNews) February 16, 2017

And I agree with her: It certainly was entertaining in parts. In other parts, not so much. But the problem is that entertainment value is one of the lowest standards one can hold a president to. Its entertaining, apparently, to see a man stick a tube up a dogs butt, but that doesnt make it art. And it may be entertaining to watch a president of the United States spill out his id on national television like a torn net full of mackerel on a dock. But if thats a standard for how to judge a presidential press conference, why didnt we elect Charlie Sheen?

Does anyone seriously believe that Trump persuaded significant numbers of people who didnt already love him?

I keep hearing from conservative pundits that a lot of people out in the real world thought this press conference was awesome. Im sure this is true. But I wonder how many conservative pundits realize that the people who thought it was awesome are already in Trumps amen corner (and that these are precisely the folks that conservative pundits are most likely to hear from  and depend on?). Does anyone seriously believe that Trump persuaded significant numbers of people who didnt already love him?

Ive written a bunch about the MacGuffinization of American politics in recent years. Ace of Spades coined the term to describe how the media covered Barack Obama. They cast him as the hero of a drama and the only goal was to see how he overcame problems. It didnt matter if he was wrong on policy  including the Constitution  what mattered was whether he emerged victorious. In a movie or book, The MacGuffin is the thing the hero wants, Ace explained. Usually the villain wants it too, and their conflict over who will end up with The MacGuffin forms the basic spine of the story. Further on, Ace writes:

Watching Chris Matthews interview Obama, I was struck by just how uninterested in policy questions Matthews (and his panel) were, and how almost every question seemed to be, at heart, about Obamas emotional response to difficulties  not about policy itself, but about Obamas Heros Journey in navigating the plot of President Barack Obama: The Movie. As with a MacGuffin in the movie, only the Heros emotional response to the MacGuffin matters.

It was the MacGuffin dynamic that first made me realize that Trump could defeat Hillary Clinton.

Now the MacGuffin thing is just a useful metaphor or analogy. But the dynamic it captures goes to the very core of humanity. While working on my book, Ive come to believe more than ever that man is a story-telling animal and that stories are what give us meaning, direction, and passion. Humes point about reason being a slave to passion should be more properly understood as reason is a slave to narrative. But we can talk more about that later.

RELATED: The Medias Me Party

The relevant point here is that Trump was right when he said that he didnt divide America, it was divided when he showed up. What concerns me is that vast numbers of conservatives who lamented the MacGuffinized presidency and media of the Obama era have grabbed with both hands the MacGuffinized presidency of Donald Trump.

It is entirely true that the press served as an eager participant in the story of Obama. It is also entirely true that much of the mainstream media is playing the reverse role in the story of Trumps presidency. And, its also the case that much of the conservative media is now playing the role they once decried in the MSM. The same people who rolled their eyes at every clickbait headline blaring Watch as Jon Stewart DESTROYS this or that Republican now cheer as Trump rails against the Failing New York Times or Very Fake News. It doesnt matter that Trumps arguments are as bogus, selective, or disingenuous as Stewarts. What matters is to cheer the butt hurt of Chuck Todd or Jim Acosta or some other enemy.

Delegitimizing all conservatives and the president of the United States if hes Republican is still cool, right? https://t.co/8zx0RKZ8RG  Mollie (@MZHemingway) February 16, 2017

Sean Hannity has taken to calling Chuck Todd a leader of something called the alt-left, a thing that is not a thing except in Hannitys studio. (The alt in alt-right refers to a desire to replace the traditional Right with a new tribalist-nationalist Right. What Left is Chuck Todd trying to replace? This is weak-tea Alinskyite distraction.)

Im reminded of that old saying, Die a hero or live long enough to see yourself defending Chuck Todd.

Now, thats not entirely fair since Ive always liked Todd, despite our fairly frequent disagreements. But you know what I mean. And I also agree with Mollie that the mainstream media has a lot to answer for when it comes to how theyve treated conservatives and Republican presidents. Ive written literally tens, if not hundreds, of thousands of words on this very point. And while I think Mollie is being unfair to Chuck here, I also think she misses the point.

When Donald Trump says any  and I mean any  negative coverage of him is fake, hes making a very, very different claim than that of traditional bias. He is saying that news stories  with multiple sources from his administration, sometimes on the record  are simply fabricated. And just because the self-loving press idiotically takes the bait every time, handing him the mallet to bludgeon them with, doesnt change the fact that the president of the United States is not only wrong, hes lying. Yes, the New York Times gets stories wrong (News flash!), but it is not a work of fiction.

Whether he understands what hes doing or not, Trumps goal is to delegitimize any critical voices.

The argument one often hears from anti-anti-Trump conservatives is that theyre just holding the mainstream media accountable. Fine. Do that. But if you dont show much interest in holding a president  who is the leader of the Republican party and maybe the conservative movement  accountable, then youve become an accomplice to the hero in a MacGuffinized presidency. One can see this most clearly when you hear radio- and TV-show hosts dismiss an argument by noting it comes from some alleged Trump hater. Its the exact same tactic liberals used against those of us who criticized Bill Clinton. My animosity for Bill Clinton didnt make him play football-coach-and-the-cheerleader with an intern. Likewise, my alleged feelings about Trump dont make me wrong when I point out hes lying when he says he won in a historic landslide or when he insists that his administration has been humming like a well-oiled machine.

Whether he understands what hes doing or not, Trumps goal is to delegitimize any critical voices. I think hes motivated more by narcissism than by some evil-genius scheme, but it doesnt really matter. What does matter is truth. We are entering a phase where everything is measured not by veracity, but by feeling: If certain facts make us feel like our side is losing, then those facts arent real. If certain fictions make the other side feel bad, then they are facts. Again, Trump didnt create this sorry dynamic, but he is accelerating it at blistering speed. Im less concerned about fake news than I am by fake opinions  by which I mean the widespread tendency to score political arguments based upon how much applause they will get from your team.

Reading Kevin Williamsons terrific essay on Presidents Day, Im of a mind to think the presidency has always been MacGuffinized. But just because a problem has a long pedigree doesnt mean the problem cant get worse. I know I use this line from Orwell too much (and Im eager to hear suggestions for substitutes), but it captures the dynamic of the moment so well: A man may take to drink because he feels himself to be a failure, and then fail all the more completely because he drinks. Collectively, were all getting drunk on our feelings and then failing all the more completely for it.

Beinarts Gotcha

And that reminds me, Peter Beinart, my old sparring partner, has attempted to take National Review to the woodshed. Let me say upfront that he makes a defensible general point about anti-anti-Trumpism (a phrase Ive been using for two years). It is a safe harbor for a lot of conservatives who dont want to be too critical of a newly elected president who is not only popular with their readership but who is also in the infancy of his presidency and has promised an agenda they would very much like to see enacted.

I was anti-Trump throughout the primaries and in a different, but still substantial way, through the election. After Trump won, I declared myself no longer a member of Never Trump for the simple reason that it was a meaningless term after he won. I could be Never New England Patriots throughout the season and the playoffs, but once they won the Super Bowl, it would be silly to say we must take back the ring. I took a wait-and-see position because, it seemed to me, that was the only mature, patriotic, and responsible position to take. And thats still my position (though wait-and-see doesnt mean stop telling the truth, which is why Ive both praised and criticized him). Some of my colleagues at NR are more enthusiastic about Trump, some less. But for the most part, as an editorial matter, thats remained our position. Also, some conservatives I know  at NR and elsewhere  have taken the view that the Trump presidency will end badly but theres no good reason to freak out now when Trump hasnt yet earned the freak out, especially if that means we will have lost credibility when we may need it down the road.

The problem with Peters critique is that hes cherry-picking various columnists to construct a narrative that doesnt hold up.

The problem with Peters critique is that hes cherry-picking various columnists to construct a narrative that doesnt hold up. He doesnt point to any NR editorials, and his examples come from stand-alone columns written by writers  some of whom dont work for the magazine  who have the freedom to say what they want. If guest writer X writes that Trump is a God-King, that doesnt mean that National Review writer Y has changed his position on anything. Moreover, Peter makes no effort to acknowledge that much of the anti-anti-Trump media criticism is really quite valid. Saying the election of Donald Trump is the equivalent of Pearl Harbor is ass-achingly stupid. Pointing that out may be helpful to Donald Trump, but that doesnt make it wrong.

Lastly, the fact that National Review runs a variety of pieces reflecting different points of view on the right is not quite the damning charge Peter seems to think it is. Beinart was the editor of The New Republic for quite a long time and I know he knows that that magazine (back when it was good) often had internal disagreements that make those at NR today seem like a fight over what kind of scones to serve at a tea party. I have disagreements with some of my colleagues (last weeks newsletter was mostly dedicated to a pretty serious one with my boss), but that strikes me as a sign of National Reviews intellectual health. What Peter and a great many of his peers in the liberal press need to understand better is that a failure to agree with them on the nature of the moment isnt necessarily evidence of hypocrisy; its evidence that we are conservatives who are inclined to take our own counsel. That this should shock anyone is a mystery to me.

Get Free Exclusive NR Content

Various & Sundry

Canine Update: The beasts are doing well, but weve gotten ourselves into a bit of a pickle. One of my wifes favorite things to do is to feed dogs ice cream. If she could find a way to monetize the practice, shed probably go pro. So, for a while at night, after dinner and the evening constitutional, she would give each canine a scoop of vanilla in a little dish. Pippa wisely prefers to make the experience last, licking her portion methodically. Zo follows in the footsteps of Cooper (seen here in one of the greatest YouTube videos of all time), devouring the ice cream as quickly as possible. Once its gone, she seems to immediately forget that she was ever given any ice cream and looks at Pippa the way a 400-pound prison inmate looks at a white-collar criminal with a pop tart.

But thats not the problem. The dogs now consider the ice cream to be an entitlement. And when we dont have ice cream, they follow Jessica around the house barking and howling as if she has the power to make it materialize (which, after all, she does in their little canine brains). Weve tried to put them on a twelve-step program, but they have no interest in earning daily chips for their ice-cream sobriety and since they believe that their higher power is an ice-cream dispenser they remain baffled.

Thanks to the YPU: On Monday night, I debated at the Yale Political Union. It was my second time and it confirmed for me that I had not dreamed how weird the first time was. Still, they were a very impressive bunch of kids for the most part. The proposition to be debated was that the Elites should rule  a topic I didnt choose and wasnt particularly interested in defending the way I was expected to.

I began by telling them that debating whether the elites should rule could be rephrased as Should Yale students continue to get their monies worth from their tuitions. I was more than a little dismayed by how many of them have so little use for democracy, the Constitution, or federalism and I was more than a bit shocked to hear two members of the Conservative party talk about the need to switch to either an unelected Catholic aristocracy or the Confucian model of the civil service. But, hey, youth.

Afterwards, the Party of the Right took me out to The Owl for liquor and cigars and that was truly a grand time. Thanks again to everyone.

ICYMI . . .

Why Trump is probably not playing 4D chess.

Why theres more to the Middle East conflict than the IsraeliPalestinian dispute.

How history will remember Obamas presidency, why Tom Hardy may or may not make a good James Bond, and other observations I made on the Fifth Estate podcast.

I talk what-aboutism, Trumps rocky early weeks, Hamilton, Oscar predictions, and more on the latest Ricochet GLoP podcast.

Why the center is weakening.

Dont forget to sign up for the National Review Institute 2017 Ideas Summit in D.C. on March 16-17.

And now, the weird stuff.

Debbys Valentines Day links

What if the Internet stopped for a day?

The evolution of Keanu Reeves

Ten actors who almost died while filming

Ten actors who took their acting too far (without dying)

*deep breath* Transgender woman, 58, who killed her sixth husband in a botched castration is arrested for threatening to shoot a judge

Just Alaska things: a moose fight in someones Anchorage front yard

Why you should never kiss a toad

Turning dragonflies into drones

The math of great literature (no, really)

Inside the worlds first five-star cat hotel

The Rio Olympic venues, six months later

Greek town evacuated to defuse World War II bomb

Can you identify these cities from their light signatures?

A working pipe organ made entirely from paper

Were past sightings of sea monsters actually just dying whales?

The history of bad breath

Do fictional characters exist in the real world?

Cronenberg Valentines

The weirdest animal hearts

Who owns the Moon?

The animals of the 141st Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show

Puppy rescued from well in Istanbul

*It happens all too often to Americans of Asian ancestry. They are walking home on a crowded street, and someone bumps into them and shouts, Go back to China! When it happened last year to Michael Luo, a New York Times journalist, he started the hashtag #ThisIs2016, and Asian-Americans shared their stories.

It happened to Jeff Sessionss granddaughter at his confirmation hearing on January 10. When MTV News writer Ira Madison III saw an Asian-American girl, the child of John Walk and Ruth Sessions Walk, sitting in her grandfathers lap, his first thought was to write, Sessions, sir, kindly return this Asian baby to the Toys R Us you stole her from. This is 2017, and yet MTV News writers are dehumanizing Asian Americans and playing into common racist tropes.

The same self-proclaimed liberals who tweet #BlackLivesMatter and #ChangeTheName, who work for a social-media network that fills its YouTube page with explainers telling you all you need to know about racism, have revealed a shocking blind spot when it comes to racism against Asian-Americans. Madison finally apologized (after digging himself an even deeper hole), but the failure of social-justice liberals to take seriously racism against people of all races is a much broader phenomenon. As the New York Times Luo told CNN about his Twitter campaign, Its resonating because Asian Americans have this feeling that racism against them is not taken as seriously as other groups.

The dominant narrative promoted by SJWs almost always divides everyone into two camps  black and white  and makes no allowance for individualism, to say nothing of ignoring the fastest growing race in the nation: Asians. In MTV News video, 5 Things You Should Know About Racism, for example, there is no reference to any specific examples of racism against Asian Americans.

In another MTV video, If You Farted Every Time You Were Racist, the Asian-American character is the subject of racism by a white character, but she was also shown dishing out racism to a black character. The black character, of course, wasnt racist to any other character, because, according to MTV News, she cant be. As Franchesca Ramsey, host of MTV News Decoded, said in another video, racism is defined in entirely leftist terms. For example, sounding like a college freshman who has recently been indoctrinated by her lefty Sociology 101 reading, she claims, Reverse racism is not a thing. And yet, as weve seen, it is indeed a thing.

Asian Americans dont fit in neatly to the hierarchy of racial oppression created by the Left. Theyre basically white, one woman who tweeted on #ThisIs2016 recalled hearing. White women who wanted to march on Washington, D.C., during inauguration weekend in January were told they cant claim to be scared, because they havent suffered like black women. Democratic candidates for president are shouted down at Netroots Nation if they voice solidarity with all lives.

Asian Americans dont fit in neatly to the hierarchy of racial oppression created by the Left.

Activists of the Left tell others they must embrace intersectional concerns, but those concerns always happen to be exclusively left-wing ideals. Thats why no one wants to talk about the fact that Asian Americans with similar qualifications have a much harder time getting into college  with an effect that would equal losing 140 points on the SAT and 3.4 on the ACT than students of other races. Theres no movement against violence that has a disproportionate effect on destroying Asian Americanowned businesses. Asian Americans are shouted down at college safe spaces when they try to discuss their experience of racism directed at them from African Americans. Even the wokest liberal cultural sites employ few Asian Americans.

The problem is social-justice liberals view the world entirely through a prism of identity. To them, no one is an individual, but rather an amalgamation of stereotypes associated with their race, gender, or group. Thus, simply because many Asian Americans have overcome hardship and prejudice and become relatively successful in the United States, liberals think they arent as entitled to our concern.

MTVs Ramsay says this explicitly in the video, 10 Excuses Used to Deny Racism DEBUNKED! Accompanying an image of a nameless Asian Lesbian, a chart shows the woman to have a very high degree of privilege based on her race, almost as high as MTV News attributed to whites. The idea that anyone can be successful through hard work, education, and values is alien to the liberal world view, where all success must be attributable to privilege. Asian Americans destroy the liberal hierarchy of oppression.

 Mitchell Blatt writes for Acculturated, where this piece originally appeared. It is reprinted with permission.

*If you care about the Bill of Rights, the rights of conscience, or even the English language, theres a chance that this morning you felt a disturbance in the Force  as if the Founders cried out in rage and were suddenly silenced. That disturbance was the Washington Supreme Courts oppressive ruling in State of Washington v. Arlenes Flowers, a case holding that a florist was bound by state law to use her artistic talents to design floral arrangements to celebrate what she viewed as an immoral event: a gay wedding.

The pretext for overriding the florists rights to free speech and religious liberty was Washingtons so-called public accommodations law, which required the owner, Barronelle Stutzman, to provide goods and services to customers regardless of their sexual orientation.

Lets be clear, according to the plain language of the law and the undisputed facts of the case, Stutzman did nothing illegal. She had always consistently and joyfully served gay clients, including the man who ultimately decided to bring potentially ruinous legal claims against her. On each of those prior occasions, however, she was not using her artistic talents to help her clients celebrate an occasion she considered immoral.

In other words, she was not discriminating on the basis of sexual orientation. She was making a decision not to help celebrate an action, a form of expression. She would no more celebrate a gay wedding than she would any form of immorality, gay or straight. To dispense with her argument, the court did what numerous progressive courts have done: It rewrote the law. It rejected what it called the status/conduct distinction, and essentially interpreted the word orientation to also mean action.

To understand how nonsensical and dangerous this is, one need merely apply it to other categories of expression. Is it now racial discrimination to refuse to bake a cake with Confederate flag icing, since the person asking for such a cake will almost always be white? Is it gender discrimination for fashion designers to refuse to dress Ivanka or Melania Trump? Theyre women, after all.

But this is the sexual revolution were talking about, so its necessary for the court to make a statement declaring the governments allegiances. Indeed, late in the opinion its author gave the game away. Picking up on the absurd and historically ignorant comparison of the modern gay-rights movement with the civil-rights movement in the segregationist South, the judge wrote, This case is no more about access to flowers than civil rights cases in the 1960s were about access to sandwiches.

This is the sexual revolution were talking about, so its necessary for the court to make a statement declaring the governments allegiances.

What are they talking about? The federal government took the extraordinary step of passing the civil-rights acts to give black Americans access not just to sandwiches but to hotel rooms, jobs, voting rights, and all the other things they were systematically denied as southern states and communities continually and oppressively imposed the badges and incidents of slavery on them. In the pre-civil-rights South, black citizens often had trouble finding places to eat or sleep. They couldnt vote. They couldnt get justice in state courts. Civil rights was about access, at its most elementary and necessary level.

But thats not the case any longer. The gay couple in this case had no trouble finding flowers. Stutzman even recommended other florists who would have been happy to help them celebrate their wedding. So, given the absence of any real harm, the court said that the state had a compelling state interest in punishing the independent social evil of discrimination toward a broader societal purpose: eradicating barriers to equal treatment of all citizens in the commercial marketplace.

Thats it right there: the state religion. It reserves for itself the exclusive ability to name, define, and eradicate social evils, and heaven help the individual citizen who disagrees. There is no need to show a traditional, legally recognized harm. There is no need to prove lack of access to alternative artistic expressions. There is only the need to show that the business owner wont use her unique talents to help celebrate the sexual revolution.

Finally, if you doubt the courts malice, look only to its last ruling  that Stutzman can be held personally liable for her allegedly discriminatory act. In other words, the court is willing to pierce the corporate veil to impose individual liability even in the absence of the traditional justifications for that drastic step. Stutzman didnt commit fraud. She didnt commingle her personal and corporate funds. She kept her private and professional affairs separate. But she still faces personal financial ruin.

Social-justice warriors will no doubt celebrate the breaking of another egg for their cultural omelet. Meanwhile, Stutzmans lawyers  my friends and former colleagues at the Alliance Defending Freedom  are appealing her case to the Supreme Court. Once again, eyes will be fixed on Justice Kennedy. Will he continue to impose his own version of the state religion, the one he so enthusiastically articulated in Obergefell? Or will he remember that words have meaning, orientation doesnt mean action, and the state cant compel citizens to condone what they consider immoral.

Its time for the Supreme Court to take a deep breath, abandon its revolutionary crusade, and remember the great wisdom of its predecessors:

If there is any fixed star in our constitutional constellation, it is that no official, high or petty, can prescribe what shall be orthodox in politics, nationalism, religion, or other matters of opinion, or force citizens to confess by word or act their faith therein. If there are any circumstances which permit an exception, they do not now occur to us.

What say you, Justice Kennedy? Do those who oppose the sexual revolution forfeit that fundamental protection? I suppose well soon find out.

 David French is a staff writer for National Review, a senior fellow at the National Review Institute, and an attorney.

*It would have been so easy for Donald Trump to address the issue of anti-Semitism at either of his two press conferences this week. All he had to do was to give an anodyne denunciation of hatred and then note his own strong Jewish connections and record of support for Israel and against those forces that promote anti-Semitism.

But he didnt. On Wednesday, in his joint appearance with Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Trump answered the question about anti-Semitism with a puzzling comment about his Electoral College victory last fall. The following day, when asked again about the subject by an Orthodox Jewish journalist, Trump launched into a tantrum denouncing the questioner and saying any claims that he was anti-Semitic were malicious lies intended to smear his administration. In neither case did he simply say the few simple words that would have defused the question.

While, like the rest of his astonishing press-conference performance, Trumps behavior was explicable because of his belief that it is in his political interest to attack the media, his failure to address the issue in a satisfactory manner led to a predictable avalanche of criticism from liberal Jews as well as a denunciation from the Anti-Defamation League. Some took his non-answers as proof that, despite his Jewish grandchildren and a testimonial from Netanyahu, Trump was presiding over an administration that was harboring Jew haters and is supported by cadres of alt-right bigots and Internet trolls who heap anti-Semitic abuse on his critics.

They blame him for the uptick in anti-Semitic incidents in the United States in the last year, including numerous threats that have been made against Jewish community centers around the country in recent months. Trumps detractors point not only to the White Houses absurd Holocaust remembrance statement that failed to mention Jews, and the stubborn refusal to apologize for that omission. They also believe that Trumps purported dog-whistling during the campaign about hate groups and his offensive comments about Mexicans, immigrants, and Muslims are the product of a prejudicial mindset. They think that when you connect all these dots, you have a picture of a president who has been an enabler of hate, and that the surge in anti-Jewish incidents is directly attributable to Trumps behavior.

Trump is guilty of being tone-deaf about the way his comments are perceived, and of turning a blind eye to the way the alt-right has interpreted his stands. Its also possible to assert that his silence about hate groups at times  especially during last years primary campaign  is a cynical strategy that encourages some on the far right to believe that Trump is on their side.

But even if we were to concede all of this, the case for Trump or even senior aide Steve Bannon (who is viewed by many liberals as the evil genius plotting to promote hate from his new lair in the West Wing) being an anti-Semite doesnt stand up to scrutiny. While the new administration can be fairly blamed for a multitude of shortcomings, the notion that Trump is the one who opened the Pandoras box of Jew-hatred sweeping across the globe is simply wrong.

Part of the reason why Trump is associated with anti-Semitism stems from the modern trope in which everything and everyone that some on the left dislike can wind up being called Hitler. Classic anti-Semites on the right who promote forms of traditional Jew-hatred have gained more notice in the last year because of their connection with an invigorated alt-right. But such people have no role in the Trump administration, nor are they likely to. His use of the slogan America First has a historical precedent in preWWII isolationism, which was compromised by anti-Semitism, but that is something that has meaning for some in the Jewish community and few others. Attempts to link his immigration executive orders to the Holocaust are specious and a partisan effort to confuse policy differences with prejudice. Bannon and the Breitbart website bear some blame for the encouragement of the worst elements among Trumps backers, but neither the man nor the publication has been guilty of anti-Semitism. Like Trump, Breitbart has a record of support for Israel, and it hasnt published any anti-Semitic articles.

If there is a rising tide of anti-Semitism sweeping across Europe and now seeking footholds in the United States, it is not driven by the alt-right but by Islamists and leftist anti-Zionists.

The ADL isnt wrong to say that Trumps missed opportunities to denounce hate are a grave mistake, since moral leadership on such issues is part of the brief of any president. But the reason for this isnt a sign that he is a closeted bigot so much as it is the product of a political strategy  encouraged by Bannon  of never admitting the premise of a critics question. Since Trump knows the Left thinks he is an anti-Semite, he refuses to meekly denounce hate but instead launches into a furious and often ridiculous counterattack on those who have the temerity of posing the question. Thats bad policy and bad politics, since Trump could do himself and the country a world of good by disassociating his presidency from hate. But the fact that he behaves in this manner is not proof of anti-Semitism.

More importantly, what those who are wringing their hands about the rise in anti-Semitic incidents forget is that the primary factor behind such hate crimes isnt the things Donald Trump says or doesnt say. If there is a rising tide of anti-Semitism, as the Obama State Department noted in recent years, sweeping across Europe and now seeking footholds in the United States, it is not driven by the alt-right but by Islamists and leftist anti-Zionists who seek to single out Jews and supporters of Israel for opprobrium and violence. The BDS (boycott, divest, sanctions) movement, which seeks to wage economic war on the state of Israel, has been directly responsible for an increase in anti-Semitic incidents on college campuses. Its support comes from the left and has a connection to the increasingly vocal and influential wing of the Democratic party that is deeply critical of Israel and willing at times to engage in speech that singles out Jews as part of an alleged cabal of Zionists seeking to manipulate American foreign policy against the best interests of the United States.

Those concerned about anti-Semitism need to lose their Trump tunnel vision and look at comments in a speech Representative Keith Ellison  the leading candidate for chair of the Democratic National Committee  made about Israel and Jews. They should also have been just as outraged about comments made by Senator Robert Menendez during the confirmation hearing of David Friedman, Trumps nominee for ambassador to Israel, on the day of the presidents epic presser attack on the press. In questioning Friedman, the New Jersey Democrat  who in the past has been a stalwart friend of Israel and a foe of Iran  raised the specter of dual loyalty for American Jews. That should have alarmed the ADL and others who worry about the way anti-Semitic stereotypes are gaining ground in the public square. But the ADL was more worried about what Trump didnt say than about what Menendez did say, and it was silent about the outrageous question the senator posed. If even Menendez is speaking in language that shows the growing influence of the anti-Israel Left, that should alert the country to the fact that there are other things to worry about than Trumps rants.

Donald Trump could do much more to denounce anti-Semitism, and he deserves criticism for that failure. But those who are quick to connect that mistake to a problem that is largely rooted in movements and ideologies with which he and his administration have no connection are just as wrong.

 Jonathan S. Tobin is a contributor to National Review Online.

*It may be tiresome and whiny, but theres a reason President Donald Trump keeps reminding us that he won the election. Were almost a month into his presidency and somehow were still discussing whether he should have been elected. The questions about his fitness were serious enough that many conservatives refused to vote for him. But from the moment he took office, the only relevant questions about Trump have been whether his policies are sound and well executed.

Instead, his opponents are still spending an inordinate amount of time telling us something we already knew: Donald Trump is not an ordinary president and the things he says and tweets are often offensive, foolish, and/or untrue. As he proved twice this week at press conferences, he cant even answer straightforward questions about anti-Semitism and racism  the sorts of questions any normal politician would consider softballs  without treating the query as a personal insult and an excuse to rant about the press rather than say the few simple words that would put the matter to rest.

As the Washington Posts E.J. Dionne put it yesterday, it is Trumps approach to leadership that is the core reason his opponents are determined to resist his government and topple it. Thats why they regard the leaks of secret surveillance tapes and transcripts of Michael Flynns conversations with the Russian ambassador as not merely convenient but completely justified.

The controversy over alleged contacts between the Trump campaign and the Russians is worth investigating. But since the key point in the New York Times report on the matter was that nothing the intelligence community has discovered points to any collusion between the Trump team and the Kremlin, the leaks that brought it all to light werent some patriotic attempt to inform the public that Trumps or Flynns loyalty was in question; they were an attempt to embarrass and undermine the new administration.

RELATED: Make the Flynn Tape Public

Those who point out Trumps hypocritical response to the leaks are not wrong. On the stump during the campaign, he was positively gleeful in describing the e-mails written by John Podesta and DNC officials and published by WikiLeaks. But liberals have engaged in the same hypocrisy, screaming bloody murder about WikiLeaks while touting each new anonymously sourced revelation about the Trump administration.

The key question of the moment isnt whether this is a president who offends the sensibilities even of many of those who would like to support him. Its whether any of this justifies government employees efforts to take down a sitting president with classified leaks. Whether or not you despise Trump, the answer to that question must be no.

RELATED: Donald Trump and Russia  What Do We Really Know?

Writers such as Dionne have a right to think Trump is unfit to be president. But there is nothing laudable about the anti-Trump resistances moving from street protests to the offices of disgruntled government officials, especially those tasked with protecting the nations secrets. The willingness of the intelligence community to take out Flynn with a flurry of leaks ought to scare all Americans. In the absence of evidence that Flynns conduct was illegal, these leaks must be viewed as part of a policy dispute rather than as an effort to protect American national security.

The willingness of the intelligence community to take out Flynn with a flurry of leaks ought to scare all Americans.

The intelligence community is right to worry about Trumps puzzling crush on Vladimir Putin and his desire to appease the Russians rather than to confront them. Many conservatives rightly share those concerns. But even if Trumps coddling of Putin is nave or worse, that doesnt put government employees who use illegal leaking to hamstring his efforts on a higher moral plane than the president.

Perhaps Trump will be so unpopular as to cost Republicans control of Congress next year, unlikely though that still seems. But when the political opposition becomes a resistance that believes any means are justifiable if they damage Trumps standing with the public, arguments that the president is a danger to the republic ring false.

It will ultimately be up to the voters to decide Trumps political fate. In the meantime, those who seek to short-circuit the democratic process and deny him a chance to govern  even if it means breaking the law  should be condemned, not cheered.

 Jonathan S. Tobin is a contributor to National Review Online. Follow him on Twitter @jonathans_tobin.

*The so-called scandal involving former National Security Advisor Mike Flynn is 9/11, Pearl Harbor, Iran-Contra, Watergate, proof of presidential fascism, a cynical money-making scheme, and a pro-Russian spy thriller all rolled into one, according to the increasingly deranged rants of howling left-wingers and their truth-adverse confederates in the mainstream media.

Despite this relentless barrage of fake news and smears, President Donald Trump pushed back against the orchestrated campaign against him yesterday at what is sure to go down in history as The Best Presidential Press Conference of All Time as he gave the mainstream media the beat-down it deserves. (See transcript.)

To give you an idea how Trump's press conference went, afterwards, the press corps demanded a safe space, Ann Coulter tweeted of the 77-minute long White House event, Trumps first solo presser as president. I wish this press conference could go on all day.

The public doesnt believe you people anymore, a ferocious, animated Trump told the assembled press corps. Maybe I had something to do with that. I dont know. But they dont believe you.

This whole Russia scam that you guys are pushing on people is so you dont talk about the real subject which is illegal leaks.

The public sees it, he said. They see it. They see its not fair. You take a look at some of your shows and you see the bias and the hatred. And the public is smart. They understand it.

I didnt do anything for Russia, he said. I have done nothing for Russia. Hillary Clinton gave them 20 percent of our uranium. Hillary Clinton did a reset, remember with the stupid plastic button that made us look like a bunch of jerks.

A mewling Chuck Todd of NBC was offended by the presidents conduct at the press conference and tweeted, This [is] not a laughing matter. Im sorry, delegitimizing the press is un-American[.]

Perhaps he shouldnt have signed on to the effort to delegitimize President Trump.

Todd, of course, is one the members of the media out to get Trump.

He recently said the invented Flynn-Russia crisis is arguably the biggest presidential scandal involving a foreign government since Iran-Contra.

Disgraced former anchorman Dan Rather, the poster child for journalistic malfeasance who humiliated himself a decade ago with his proven lies about George W. Bushs military service record, couldnt resist hopping on the bandwagon in order to create the illusion he is relevant.

He gravely pontificated that Watergate is the biggest political scandal of my lifetime, until maybe now. It was the closest we came to a debilitating Constitutional crisis, until maybe now.

This manufactured mass hysteria directed against Trump, a democratically elected president, in order to drive him from office continues. It feeds on itself. It infects. It multiplies. It smothers.

This un-American mobocracy threatens to snuff out American democracy itself if not contained.

Calls for President Trumps impeachment, removal from office by the Senate or by military coup, and assassination are growing on the Left as it comes to grips with the fact that the Chief Executive is deadly serious about protecting America and rolling back President Obamas poisonous legacy.

No claim or statement is too crazy, lawless, undemocratic, or barbaric for the Left as it desperately tries to keep the borders open to Muslim terrorists, Americans groaning under the chains of Obamacare, businesses buried in red tape, and the welfare state ballooning.

Exhibit A from the magical land of fairy dust and unicorns is communist mockumentary director Michael Moore.

In the complete absence of evidence, Moore called Trump a "Russian traitor" and said he should vacate the White House. "We can do this the easy way (you resign), or the hard way (impeachment)." He also called for Trump to be arrested.

Todd, Rather, and Moore are far from alone.

On Fox News Channel, Sean Hannity held up an interview CNNs Wolf Blitzer did with Rep. Seth Moulton (D-Mass.) as an example of the medias abusively biased coverage, this false narrative.

If members of the administration are essentially conspiring with Russia either through the campaign earlier or now in the administration itself, I mean, look, Wolf, thats the definition of treason, Moulton said. This is a very, very serious affair.

From his perch at a glossy, content-free fashion magazine, MSNBC reject Keith Olbermann huffed and puffed. I call for the immediate indictment of Michael Thomas Flynn on charges of and his immediate arrest on suspicion of violation of the Logan Act, he said invoking a long-forgotten statute from 1799 under which no one has ever been convicted. Trump should be named as Flynns unindicted co-conspirator, he added.

Sen. Ed Markey (D-Mass.) conspiracy-theorized that Trump is using the Flynn saga to privatize intelligence-gathering and help his friends on Wall Street make money off it. Trump plans to ask Stephen A. Feinberg, a co-founder of Cerberus Capital Management, to conduct a broad review of American intelligence agencies, the New York Times has reported.

"Now what he's doing is naming another Wall Streeter to go in like a corporate takeover of the intelligence community, clearly with the intent of creating a chilling effect upon these intelligence professionals, who are trying to help America to understand how our security may have been compromised in our relationship with Russia," Markey said.

Riot-cheerleading Rep. Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), who claims the Reagan administration flooded the nations inner cities with crack cocaine, was overjoyed at Flynns ouster, describing him as a liar and someone who cannot be trusted.

"I've always believed that there has been collusion between the Trump outfit here, and Russia and the Kremlin. So I believe this is the tip of the iceberg  the strategy and the plot, to defend Russia and to work with Russia, is part of who Trump and his organization is," Waters said.

New York Times columnist and hyperbole junkie Thomas Friedman accused Flynn and Trump of participating in some weird, ill-defined international conspiracy. After the Russians did not respond harshly to the eviction of their spies and diplomats, Trump actually tweeted out some positive encouragement of this. Did the two of them cook this up all along?

And it gets  to two other issues, Friedman continued. The first is, we have never taken seriously from the very beginning Russia hacked our election. That was a 9/11-scale event. They attacked the core of our very democracy. That was a Pearl Harbor-scale event.

Radical kook Chauncey DeVega, who calls Trump a fascist authoritarian, hyperventilated at Salon that the president is a traitor to the United States and so are all who back him.

Trumps voters and other supporters who do not denounce him are also traitors, and any Republican officials who continue to back Trump are traitors as well, he wrote, as visions of sending patriotic Americans to die in forced labor camps danced in his head.

PJMedias Michael Walsh calls whats happening in the country a rolling coup attempt and hes right.

Make no mistake about whats happening here: this is a rolling coup attempt, organized by elements of the intelligence community, particularly CIA and NSA, abetted by Obama-era holdovers in the understaffed Justice Department (Sally Yates, take a bow) and the lickspittles of the leftist media, all of whom have signed on with the Resistance in order to overturn the results of the November election.

This escalating offensive against Trump kicked up a few notches after Flynn, an arch foe of Islamofascism, was forced out of his critically important advisory role Monday night by what is shaping up to be an East German-style Ben Rhodes-centered deep state cabal.

Flynn, a retired lieutenant general in the U.S. Army, fell on his sword reportedly for allegedly making contact with a Russian envoy. The White House claims Flynn resigned after admitting he lied to Vice President Mike Pence about his conversations with the Russian ambassador to the U.S. Sergey Kislyak.

It's not as if we know what actually happened with Flynn and the Russian or Russians at this point, or if there was any contact at all. News reports don't quote any on-the-record sources.

And despite the lunatic ravings of NBC, ABC, CBS, CNN, the New York Times, the Washington Post, Bill Kristol, David Frum, Sally Kohn, Joan Walsh, Hollywood celebrities, and many others, there is no credible evidence whatsoever that Trump had anything to do with the hacking of the Hillary Clinton campaign and the Democratic National Committee or that Trump colluded with Russia in whatever may or may not have transpired.

Without proof all of this screaming about Flynn and Trump and their supposedly nefarious connections to Vladimir Putin is just noise.

It could be (and likely is) completely made up.

Fiction is, after all, what Ben Rhodes, now identified as a major player in the plot against the president, specialized in when he worked in the Obama White House. Rhodes bragged to the New York Times about duping Americans by creating a media echo chamber to promote the botched, unenforceable nuclear nonproliferation agreement with the Islamic Republic of Iran that will actually end up helping the mad mullahs who want to kill us all get the bomb. Rhodes became a misinformation-manufacturing servant of a hostile power while betraying his fellow Americans to help an Islam-loving president cozy up to the world's worst state sponsor of terrorism.

But as we keep learning more and more about Rhodes and Obamas post-presidential sabotage apparatus, there was a small victory for common sense as the FBI announced it sees no reason to do anything about the Flynn case because theres nothing there.

The FBI is still investigating the Russian saga but wont pursue charges against Flynn barring new information that changes what they know, CNN reported last night. Although Flynn stumbled at times during FBI interviews, investigators believe Flynn was cooperative and provided truthful answers.

And that cant be bad.

*Daniel Greenfield, a Shillman Journalism Fellow at the Freedom Center, is a New York writer focusing on radical Islam.

Every five minutes the many mouths of the media broadcast, type, post and shriek that President Donald J. Trump is a liar. After months of this treatment, more voters find him truthful than them.

49% of voters believe that Trump and his people are telling the truth. Only 39% believe that the media is.

The medias war on President Trump isnt hurting him. It is destroying the medias own credibility.

After Trumps win, the media came to the conclusion that its biased attacks on him had been too subtle and understated to connect with the dumb voters. So it decided to be far more overt about its smears.

The New York Times, which used to be the best at disguising its biases in the omnipotent voice of professional journalism, called President Trump a liar in its headlines. The media cheered this descent into naked partisanship by the paper of record. But it didnt hurt Trump. It hurt the Times.

Headlines blasting President Trump as a liar are easy enough to find on the internet. The New York Times derives much of its influence from its appearance of serious professionalism. Calling Trump names made it hard to distinguish the New York Times from the Huffington Post.

The first time the New York Times called Trump a liar was during the election. Times editor Dean Baquet insisted that while Hillary Clinton might obfuscate, exaggerate, Trump was a liar. And when the Times printed lies about Trump, it too was no doubt merely obfuscating and exaggerating rather than lying.

The Times cant call its own candidate who lied about landing under sniper fire in Bosnia, negotiating peace in Northern Ireland and being kept out of NASA and the Marine Corps by sexism, a liar. And yet it expects someone, anyone, to believe that calling Trump a liar is anything more than a partisan smear.

Before the first debate, the New York Times, the Los Angeles Times, the Washington Post and Politico all ran stories accusing Trump of being a liar. The coordinated attack failed to accomplish anything at all.

Our president is a pathological liar. Say it. Write it. Never become inured to it, Times columnist Charles Blow ranted in January. By February, the Times was reduced to writing explainers to explain why its lies werent working. Why Nobody Cares the President Is Lying.

The public had become inured to a partisan attack from a partisan press.

The more the media attacked Trump, the less effective those attacks became. To call anyone else a liar, you need to tell the truth. And truth requires objectivity. The media had discarded objectivity in pursuit of political goals, but still identified as objective. In the parlance of political correctness, you are what you identify as, but the real world has never brought into this lie masquerading as a delusion.

Truth is not who you pretend to be. Its who you are.

The media wanted the authority to determining who was lying without the responsibility of telling the truth. As the media made its partisan bias more obvious, it lost the credibility it needed. The more the media called President Trump a liar, the more the public believed that the media was lying.

I think we're in a remarkably partisan moment, where people who don't like Donald Trump feel like the media is not doing enough about him. I think that's just wrong, Dean Baquet complained.

The media is doing more than ever. And its accomplishing less than ever.

Instead the media has become trapped in a cycle of impotence. The harder it attacks Trump, the more credibility it loses. And this makes its attacks on him even more spectacularly ineffective.

Its arrogance has become its own undoing.

There were two reasons for the medias influence. It had the infrastructure and it had credibility. The internet has made infrastructure largely irrelevant. If you are sitting in an airport, you might be stuck in front of a monitor playing CNN. But its usually just as easy to punch up FOX News on your phone.

The billions of dollars in media infrastructure, printing presses, broadcast towers and licenses, are becoming more irrelevant every year. And the medias credibility is becoming irrelevant even faster.

Without broadcasting infrastructure, the medias reach depends on credibility. The majority of Democrats still believe the media. The vast majority of Republicans do not. The media is an echo chamber that reflects this partisan structure. And its echo doesnt reach past the ranks of the left.

The media is baffled at the futility of its efforts against Trump. It still cant conceive of a world in which it isnt trusted or needed. But Americans already dont trust the media. And they dont need it either.

The existence of a professional class of men and women who write about events was a leftover from an era when communication speeds were rising, but distribution still required investing in infrastructure: whether it was a printing press or a broadcast tower. The internet makes distribution absurdly easy.

Even the old privileges of the press, like the press corps, can be easily stripped away from it, as the White House has demonstrated by expanding the press corps to include more conservative outlets.

The New York Times was once known as the paper of record because it set the agenda for smaller papers. As one editor declared, We set the agenda for the country in that room. But the Times doesnt set the agenda anymore. The internet does. The medias political content is driven by the talking points of left-wing Twitter and the rest of its national offerings consist of viral videos and trending topics.

The media bemoans the collapse of its influence as a post-truth world filled with Fake News and

alternative facts. But it was the media that destroyed its hegemony of credibility. After unveiling its Fake News smear, it quickly pulled it back again because it was all too easy for conservatives to use it to expose the flood of media lies.

A post-truth world rejects objectivity. The media imagines that its fact checks, which spin and editorialize shamelessly, put it on the side of truth. But truth is more than finding a factoid you can use to make a lie seem more plausible or a truth more unlikely. Its intellectual honesty for its own sake.

The media believes that its left-wing goals are more important than objectivity or truth. But by abandoning the principles it claimed to live by, it destroyed its ability to achieve those goals.

*Editor's note: Below is the third installment in a series of articles highlighting the network of major hate groups in America that are supported and funded by the Left. Click the following for the previous profile on the Souther Poverty Law Center and Students for Justice in Palestine.

Founded in 1990, the New Black Panther Party for Self-Defense (NBPP) is a militant black separatist organization that promotes racial violence against Jews and whites. NBPP preaches a Ten-Point Platform similar to its that of its namesake  the murderous Black panther Party of the 1960s and 70s  demanding such things as: full employment for our [black] people, in light of the fact that the white man has  used every dirty trick in the book to stand in the way of our freedom and independence; the overdue debt of reparations from this wicked racist government [that] has robbed us; exemption for blacks from all taxation; and education for our people that exposes the true nature of this devilish and decadent American society.



Khalid Abdul Muhammad, a onetime spokesman for Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan, joined NBPP in the mid-1990s and by1998 had become NBPP's chairman. He earned a reputation as an inveterate racist and anti-Semite by characterizing Jews as slumlords in the black community who were busy sucking our [blacks] blood on a daily and consistent basis; asserting that Jews had provoked Adolf Hitler when they went in there, in Germany, the way they do everywhere they go, and they supplanted, they usurped; telling a San Francisco State University audience that the white man is the Devil; declaring that blacks, in retribution against South African whites of the apartheid era, should kill them all; and praising a black man who had shot some twenty white and Asian commuters in a racially motivated shooting spree aboard a New York commuter train as a hero who possessed the courage to just kill every goddamn cracker that he saw. Muhammad also advised blacks that [t]here are no good crackers, and if you find one, kill him before he changes.



When Muhammad died in February 2001, he was succeeded as NBPP chairman by his longtime protg, Malik Zulu Shabazz. At a rally the previous summer, Shabazz had openly called for a race war in which black young people would unite against the common enemy so that we will see caskets and funerals in the[ir] community.



In the wake of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, NBPP promoted numerous conspiracy theories alleging Jewish complicity. NBPP officer Amir Muhammad, for instance, suggested that Jews had been forewarned about the terror plot and thus had stayed away from the attack sites on 9/11: There are reports that as many as 3,000 to 5,000 so-called Jews did not go to work [at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon] that day, and we need to take a serious look at that.



In yet another false claim, NBPP has consistently maintained that Jews were significantly and substantially involved in the transatlantic slave trade.



In March 2012, NBPP weighed in on the explosive case of Trayvon Martin, a black teenager who had recently been shot and killed under disputed circumstances by a white Hispanic named George Zimmerman in Sanford, Florida. Declaring that White America would no longer be permitted to kill black children and get away with it, the Panthers initially offered a $10,000 bounty for the capture of Zimmerman, DEAD or ALIVE. Soon thereafter, the Panthers upped the ante to $1 million, a sum which they expected to collect in donations from the black community.



On April 6, 2012, three NBPP leaders conducted a group phone conference to discuss a scheduled rally that was to be held in memory of Trayvon Martin. During the course of that conversation, they called on black people to get suited, booted, and armed up for this race war against these honkies, these crackers, these pigs, these people, these motherfu**er[s], and they demanded the destruction of that blonde-haired, blue-eyed, sometimes brown-eyed, Caucasian walkin' around with a mindset, a demonistic mindset, and a nature to do evil and brutality.



In May 2012, NBPP's national field marshal, King Samir Shabazz, made a number of racially charged statements, including the following:

I love white-on white-crime, because that is the best crime, and were going say 'black power' to that.

I love black people, and I hate the g*ddamn white man, woman, and child, grandma, aunt, uncle, Pappa Billy Bob, and whoever else.... I hate the very look of white people. I hate the sound of white people. G*ddamnit, I hate the smell of white people.

You should be thankful were not running around here hanging crackers by nooses and all that kind of stuff, yet, yet, yet.

In a June 2012 segment on NBPP Radio, an NBPP member known as General TACO (acronym for Taking All Capitalists Out) warned that his organization would hunt white people's pink asses down and kill them because of their history of pushing crack, AIDS and unemployment on black people in order to exterminate them. Once [white people] die, he added, we should dig 'em up, and kill 'em again, bury 'em, dig 'em up, and kill 'em again, and again, and again!



In October 2013, Malik Zulu Shabazz announced that he was stepping down from his position as NBPP's national chairman in order to focus on his career as an attorney with Black Lawyers for Justice, though he pledged to continue serving NBPP as a spiritual guide. His replacement as NBPP's national chairman was Hashim Nzinga, who had previously served as the organization's chief of staff.

It was a seamless transition from Shabazz to Nzinga, as the latter took the reins of NBPP with a well-established reputation as a race-baiting hate monger. Indeed, Nzinga proclaims that because America has declared war on us, NBPP members are willing to die or kill to save our babies and to save a black nation that is dying before our eyes. So if we say we are at war, adds Nzinga, we should be applauded like George Washington. We should be applauded like Thomas Jefferson. We should be applauded like the Founding Fathers of the country.

Nzinga and his NBPP comrades view themselves as the aspiring founders of a new nation rooted in identity politics and violent tribal hatred  the very antithesis of what Washington and Jefferson envisioned. If the Panthers have their way, American streets will run red with blood, and the values of tolerance and civility that grew out of the Enlightenment will be replaced by a vengeful barbarism no better than that of ISIS and its murderous butchers.

*Daniel Greenfield, a Shillman Journalism Fellow at the Freedom Center, is a New York writer focusing on radical Islam

"I dont think its morally evil to own somebody."

"A male owner of a female slave has the right to sexual access to her.

These views dont come from an ISIS underground bunker, but out of the brilliantly lit halls of Georgetown University where rape and slavery are defended by an Islamic studies professor.

Georgetown had changed the names of Mulledy Hall and McSherry Hall because Mulledy and McSherry had once been involved in selling some slaves back in the early 19th century. When Christina Hoff Sommers spoke at Georgetown, feminists demanded trigger warnings and a university official threatened College Republicans. But defending actual slavery and rape is still okay at Georgetown.

So long as its committed by Muslims under the license of the Koran.

"I dont think its morally evil to own somebody, Jonathan Brown explained to attendees at his lecture. Slavery cannot just be treated as a moral evil in and of itself.

The Georgetown Islamic Studies professor had expelled a critic before the lecture even began. He thought that he was among brothers at the International Institute of Islamic Thought. But sitting in the audience was Umar Lee, another convert, but one who unlike Brown had struggled with the morality of his new religion. Some in the audience had questions and Brown had horrifying Islamist answers.

To a man who argued that slavery was wrong, Brown retorted, How can you say, if youre Muslim, the Prophet of God had slaves. He had slaves. Theres no denying that. Was heare you more morally mature than the Prophet of God? No youre not.

Slavery cant be wrong. Not if Mohammed, the prophet of Allah and founder of Islam, had slaves. The Koran is the touchstone of Browns personal morality, as it is of every Muslim.

Mohammed was the perfect man and a role model for all Muslims. Therefore rape and child abuse cant be wrong either. Not when the founder of Islam was both a rapist and a pedophile.

When Brown had been asked in the past about the women and girls sold and raped by ISIS based on Islamic law, he defended the Islamic practice of sex slavery, There is no doubt that the Quran and Sunna permit this.

So too when defending Mohammeds sexual abuse of a 9-year-old girl, Brown insisted, You cannot say from a Sharia perspective that what the prophet did was wrong because the prophet cant commit sins.

How can Mohammeds slavery and rape be whitewashed? All you have to do is deny the existence of freedom and the right of human beings not to be enslaved and raped.

"Its very hard to have this discussion because we think of, lets say in the modern United States, the sine qua non of morally correct sex is consent," Brown lectured wearily.

"If you take away the consent element, then everyone starts flipping out. Right? At that but you get, rape you get sexual acts done by people who are too young we perceive to consent. And these are sort of the great moral wrongs of our society."

We focus on consent, Brown explained, because we fetishize the idea of autonomy, but most of human history human beings have not thought of consent as the essential feature of morally correct sexual activity.

Islam certainly does not. In Islamic morality, consent has as much to do with moral sexual activity as ice cream cones have to do with airplanes. Islam does not offer universal rights, but hierarchies of privilege in return for allegiance to Muslim leaders. It eliminates individual autonomy: whether its that of non-Muslim women being raped by Muslim conquerors or non-Muslim slaves reduced to property.

"A male owner of a female slave has the right to sexual access to her... her 'consent' would be meaningless since she is his slave," Brown had also explained in the past.

"Slave women do not have agency over their sexual access, so their owner can have sex with them," he appears to have written on Facebook.

America is based on equality of rights. Islam is a supremacist system based on inequality.

We fetishize the idea of autonomy to the extent that we forget, again whos really free? Are we really autonomous people? Brown wonders.

This deconstruction of a crime against a woman into philosophizing about the nature of free will isnt just academic wordplay; its the essence of Islam. Islam denies that human beings can be free. Muslims are slaves of Allah. They serve the Caliph. In return, they may force everyone else to serve them.

Is anyone really free? Were all slaves.

That is the essential idea of Islam. Its the radical notion of every totalitarian revolutionary movement. If everyone is already enslaved, then enslaving them under the correct way of thinking is really liberation.

No one is free. Therefore those who are more free, because they worship Allah or recognize the evils of capitalism, are doing them a favor by enslaving them.

And the rest is word games.

Jonathan Brown is a Georgetown boy. He got his degree there and these days he holds the Alwaleed bin Talal Chair of Islamic Civilization and directs the Alwaleed bin Talal Center for Muslim Christian Understanding. The $20 million gift from the Saudi prince brought real rape culture to Georgetown.

Don't look for Georgetown's Working Group on Slavery or President DeGioia, who decided to rename two buildings because their namesakes had once sold slaves, to get involved. The Saudis still practice their own form of slavery. They only abolished slavery, on an official basis, under pressure from JFK.

In 1962.

These days, the Saudis actually fund people like Brown who defend slavery in the United States.

Brown is valued by his masters for his word games. He deconstructs slavery and rape until they become meaningless. No one is ever free. And as the holder of a chair funded by a slave kingdom, he ought to know.

After the scandal broke, Brown declared on Twitter, "Islam as a faith and I as a person condemn slavery, rape and concubinage."

In the past, Brown had written, As for concubinage, there is no doubt that the Quran and Sunna permit this. At the lecture, he had declared, If youre Muslim, the Prophet of God had slaves. He had slaves. Theres no denying that. Was heare you more morally mature than the Prophet of God?

But its all in how you define slavery, rape or terrorism.

Behind all the words games is a fundamental clash of values and civilizations. American values and Islamic values are not compatible. Islam does not believe in consent, freedom and autonomy. It also doesnt believe in truth. A dialogue with a totalitarian ideology is meaningless. It consists of deceitful word games used to justify its abuses. Those word games are all that Jonathan Brown has to offer.

Its all that the left has to offer. Thats why it will protect and defend Brown and his horrifying views.

The modern campus and its obsession with punishing slavery and eradicating rape culture are a sham. Georgetown will lash out at a dead 19th century Jesuit priest, but it will never stand up to the Saudi royals or Jonathan Brown. It will investigate rape culture everywhere except in the speeches and writings of one of its professors who is merely quoting the horrifying body of Islamic jurisprudence.

ISIS atrocities shocked the world. But its a shorter distance from ISIS to the modern world than we like to think. You dont need to travel to Iraq or Syria to listen to it being defended as a way of life.

Just stop by Georgetown instead.

*Three unelected federal judges in San Francisco yesterday ordered the Trump administration to continue accepting visitors and would-be immigrants from seven dangerous countries that are incubators of Muslim terrorism.

When President Trump learned his temporary ban on the admission of aliens from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen that was put on hold Feb. 3 by Seattle-based Judge James L. Robart would continue in abeyance, he got on Twitter immediately.

At 6:35 p.m. Eastern time he tweeted in all caps: SEE YOU IN COURT, THE SECURITY OF OUR NATION IS AT STAKE!

The open-borders crowd doesnt have a legal leg to stand on. That may be why at a press conference celebrating the outrageous ruling, a member of Washington Attorney General Bob Fergusons (D) team deployed the phrase social justice to justify the decision. Social justice is a magical amulet that nullifies anything the Left doesnt like, including the presidents executive order. Its very invocation is an admission that a cause is illegitimate and un-American.

The Ninth Circuits fairy dust-based decision is an intellectually dishonest piece of work, said retired Judge Andrew Napolitano.

Tucker Carlson was in fine form last night as he roughed up the platitude-spouting, Haitian-born District of Columbia Attorney General Karl Racine (D) on television.

Racine, who supported the lawsuit by filing an amicus brief, absurdly argued EO 13769 was discriminatory to a certain religion and therefore violated the Constitutions Establishment Clause.

Carlson retorted that there is a precedent for singling out people for special treatment because of religion and that the U.S. had used explicit religious tests until pretty recently. Until September 1988, he said, the U.S. granted refugee status to Soviet Jews because they were persecuted in their home country.

Probably the two most insane legal principles invented in the decision are (1) that everyone, everywhere on the planet enjoys due process rights under the U.S. Constitution, and 2) that courts can second-guess a national security-related executive order based on something other than the actual words in the order.

That a panel of the notoriously left-wing U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit committed this unlawful, unconstitutional atrocity is not surprising but it is still unsettling. In the decision Judges William C. Canby, Richard R. Clifton, and Michelle T. Friedland, substituted their vision of how to conduct foreign affairs for the nations elected president. The ruling not only violates separation of powers but also constitutes an attack on the status of the president as Commander-in-Chief charged with protecting the United States.

Conservatives who follow judicial affairs know that no other court compares to the Ninth Circuit. In 2012 the U.S. Supreme Court reversed an incredible 86 percent of the decisions it reviewed from that court. The circuit previously struck down the Pledge of Allegiance because it contained the phrase under God. It has also found that citizens have no constitutional right to own guns. Some call the court the Ninth Circus and the Nutty Ninth, and for good reason. (The ruling in Washington and Minnesota v. Trump may be read here at the Ninth Circuits website.)

The litigation arose out of Executive Order 13769, which President Trump signed Jan. 27. The order, which isnt much different from an executive order President Obama signed a few years ago dealing with the same seven countries, is titled Protecting The Nation From Foreign Terrorist Entry Into The United States.

The idea behind EO 13769 was to put a brief pause on the admission of aliens from the terrorism-plagued countries so the new administration could devise new strategies for dealing with visitors from those countries in ways that enhance, as opposed to imperil, U.S. national security. It also indefinitely halts the entry of Syrian refugee applicants because they cant be properly vetted and many of them are no doubt jihadists posing as bona fide migrants.

Meanwhile, Washington Gov. Jay Inslee (D), whose state challenged the travel ban, rejoiced at the Ninth Circuit ruling. He wasted no time shooting back at Trump.

I just saw a tweet from the president. He said, see you in court. Well, Mr. President, we just saw you in court, and we beat you, and you ought to think about this because these courts have said this is unconstitutional and it will not stand. And were hopeful that that happens. If it doesn't Washington State's going to continue its fight.

Inslees gloating over the Left Coast courts ruling may be short-lived. Legal observers say even with the current 4-4 ideological split on the U.S. Supreme Court, Trump would still stand a good chance of prevailing there.

As Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) sees it, the case shouldnt even be before the courts because the law is so clearly on the presidents side.

"President Trump's order to temporarily pause the refugee program and travel from seven war-torn countries is plainly legal under the Constitution and our immigration laws, Cotton said.

No foreigner has a constitutional right to enter the United States and courts ought not second-guess sensitive national-security decisions of the president, he said.

This misguided ruling is from the Ninth Circuit, the most notoriously left-wing court in America and the most reversed court at the Supreme Court, he said. I'm confident the administration's position will ultimately prevail."

Daniel Horowitz seemed to anticipate the kooky ruling in a recent column at Conservative Review.

The ubiquitous notion, he wrote, among the political and legal establishment that there are any constitutional limitations on our sovereign right to exclude any immigrant for any reason is the most dangerous constitutional crisis we are facing in the coming months.

Two centuries of case law, he adds, the accepted laws of nation states, and the principles of the social compact, popular sovereignty, and jurisdictional sovereignty, the American people  as expressed through their elected representatives  have the right to exclude or deport any non-citizen for any reason.

Obviously, Horowitz and Cotton are right.

According to 8 U.S. Code  1182:

Whenever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, he may  suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate.

Of course, there are limits to what the highest court in the land is willing to do. It bent over backwards to avoid conflict with the executive branch by upholding the grotesquely unconstitutional Obamacare law forcing Americans to purchase health insurance. Would it dare challenge a president in the area of foreign affairs and national security where a presidents authority is at its highest ebb?

For the high court to give a U.S. president the finger by ignoring the text of this clearly-worded federal statute would be nearly unthinkable and truly earth-shattering. It would create a constitutional crisis the likes of which the republic hasnt seen in a very long time. It seems unlikely the U.S. Supreme Court would want to generate so much intense political heat.

But even if Trump continues to face resistance from leftists on the bench who make up stuff to arrive at preordained results, he doesnt have to play by the legal Lefts rules by limiting his fight to the current litigation. He could moot the Ninth Circuits ruling by issuing a new executive order or by issuing a series of executive orders dealing with the individual subjects addressed by his original executive order.

This is chess, not checkers, and a president has a lot more moves available to him than judges do. There is absolutely no reason for him to limit his efforts to protect the homeland to his opponents turf in the judiciary.

This brings us to the larger problem of judicial supremacism, which isnt anything new. But the Ninth Circuits boneheaded decision illustrates how unelected people in black robes can expose us to grave threats in an age in which Muslim terrorists want to annihilate America and Western Civilization.

Courts arrogate jurisdiction to themselves, taking authority away from the peoples representatives. To the Left, everything is justiciable, and thats the problem. And this lust for power is going to get Americans killed.

It could be said that from Honolulu to Baltimore, a curtain fashioned of black cloth has descended over the country.

The courts take on too many cases they have no business hearing. In too many instances, judges recognize no limits on their authority. This is wrong. This is not what the Framers of the Constitution wanted.

It is not even what Chief Justice John Marshall wanted when he invented American-style judicial review in Marbury v. Madison. It is emphatically the province and duty of the judicial department to say what the law is, wasnt intended to be a gateway to judicial dictatorship.

At long last limits must be imposed on judicial review.

When unelected judges seize power they are not supposed to have and thumb their noses at We The People by rejecting the Constitution and the unambiguous language of a congressionally approved statute specifically giving the president discretion regarding the admission of aliens, it is time for a revolution against those usurping judges.

Americans fought a long and bloody war to win independence from an oppressive mother country.

Now they must fight a new war against this judicial tyranny that has darkened the American landscape.

*Daniel Greenfield, a Shillman Journalism Fellow at the Freedom Center, is a New York writer focusing on radical Islam.

Bernie is asking for a political revolution and college students are some of the main demographic he is speaking to, Elizabeth Prier, communications director for the Young Democrats of Watauga County, told students at Appalachian State Universitys Plemmons Student Union.

That was a year ago.

This year, Prier became one of four ASU students arrested for spray painting "F--- Trump," "F--- Cops" and "Black Lives Matter" on a police car and stores in downtown Boone, North Carolina.

Watauga County is divided between rural conservative voters and the students of Appalachian State University. Boone has a smaller population than the number of students at ASU. The tug of war between residents and students made it a swing county going by very narrow margins from Obama to Romney.

The Watauga County Board of Elections had been forced to add an early voting site on campus so that ASU students wouldnt be expected to walk a few blocks over to vote even while rural voters were being disenfranchised and expected to travel for miles. ASU students won. And the natives lost.

Hillary Clinton won Watauga County, but it didnt give her the state. And the ASU leftists lashed out.

At four in the morning, the four feminists went to work. The Appalachian Antique Mall, its cozy windows still filled with shining lights and gifts, was defaced with hateful scrawls of Black Lives Matter and Ruled by White Supremacy. Earth Fare, an organic food supermarket, was denounced for Neoliberalism. The term is largely associated with the anti-free enterprise radical left.

The Danl Boone Inn, a family restaurant in one of the oldest buildings in town serving Southern Fried Chicken and Black Cherry Preserves, was smeared. The vandals did their worst to a Boone police cruiser.

ASU facilities had also been vandalized making it all too easy to figure out who was responsible. A tip to High Country Crime Stoppers located the culprits who were predictably ASU students.

The four, Elizabeth Prier, 22,, Julia Grainger, 22, Taryn Bledsoe, 22, and Hannah Seay, 21 were part of Appalachian State Universitys social justice crowd. The meaning of what happened to them goes beyond the vandalism in downtown Boone. It was the endpoint of the indoctrination into extremism on campuses across the country that transforms students into vandals and violent protesters.

How did Elizabeth Prier go from campaigning from Bernie Sanders to vandalism within a year?

Prier had headed up communications for LIPS: Expressions of Female Sexuality. The self-described lesbian feminist had also co-founded FEM Radio to discuss gender and minority issues.

Julia Grainger is the Director of Marketing for the Appalachian Social Justice Educators club. ASJE is the center of social justice radicalization at ASU. Its logo is a black power fist. Julia had made headlines in the past for attacking a fraternitys efforts to combat sexual assault. She had denounced fraternities as, hyper-masculine, rape culture perpetrating cesspools and their members as, sexist, racist, homophobic, ignorant trash.

During her rant, Julia quoted Pedagogy of the Oppressed. Pedagogy is a Marxist text that is widely used in teacher-training. But its brand of education is indoctrinating students to their role in the struggle between the oppressors and the oppressed. It is how social justice educators are manufactured.

Julia and the other vandals believed that they were the oppressed. They had been taken in as teenagers and had been transformed into exactly what the modern college education had been designed to achieve. The vandalism was not out of step with their education at ASU. It was the intended outcome.

Hannah Seay condemned environmental racism and had taken part in the Intersect social justice three-day immersion retreat aimed at empowering students to take positive action on our campus. Its logo, like much of campus social justice activism, was also the black power fist. Such retreats can resemble cult indoctrination sessions in which individual identity is beaten down through criticism.

Protesting a North Carolina bill to protect women from being attacked by men in the bathroom, Seay described it as a reflection of a state that relentlessly enacts violence upon black and brown queer and trans communities. You did not have to listen too hard to hear the hatred or the radicalism.

Like some of the other alleged vandals, Prier was obsessed with identity politics. Her social media shows the effect that the new academic obsession with deconstructing identity appeared to be having on her young psyche.

"This semester has been such a transformation as far as my gender identity goes and I couldn't be more thankful," Elizabeth wrote early in her time at Appalachian.

"Some days I wake up and I don't feel like a girl at all,"

The gender class that Elizabeth was taking at Appalachian State University had changed her sense of self. And she wasnt alone. Obsession with gender and identity was a running theme among the vandals.

Identity politics deconstructs identity and takes the resulting confusion, anger and frustration, and directs it outward in pursuit of the lefts radical causes. Identity politics studies resemble classic brainwashing techniques used by cults and totalitarian governments. These brainwashing techniques for deconstructing and reconstructing identity are most effective when practiced on the young.

The four were the product of the same process that has spread protests, assaults and faked hate crimes across so many campuses. Campus identity politics studies are a taxpayer funded violent campus cult that seeks to create a fanatical following willing to do anything in the name of its utopian ideal while expanding its influence through lies and threats. Like cults, identity politics offers a false sense of love while spreading paranoia, violence and hatred among its followers.

While Appalachian may not be the first name that comes to mind when thinking of radical campuses, leftist radicalism had become deeply embedded in the former teachers college. Gender, Womens and Sexuality Studies at ASU is headed by Kim Q. Hall. Hall was the co-author of Whiteness which encouraged resistance to whiteness. The ASU campus features a Tunnel of Oppression.

Controversy flared up last year when racist white privilege boards denouncing white students, Christians and women were put up by social justice activists. A student who objected to its hateful leftist message faced harassment and threats. One message said: This white girl deserves all of the cyberbullying because shes white and has never experienced oppression.

The associate director of University Housing-Residence Life refused requests to remove the hate board.

And violence was never very far from the mix. The Appalachian Social Justice Educators club could be seen promoting Rayquan Borum who had shot another protester at a Black Lives Matter protest for Keith Lamont Scott. Even though Borum had admitted to the crime and the attack was caught on video, the racist Black Nationalist movements behind the protests have spread claims that Borum was framed.

Instead of protecting students from social justice hate, ASU administrators instead chose to intimidate them. A Bias Incident Response Team (BIRT) was rolled out to deal with unwelcome speech.

But when actual criminal acts are committed by social justice activists, administrations ignore them. They have to because the ugly truth is that left-wing hate on campus does not come from without, but from within. The women who vandalized local businesses and the campus had been radicalized on campus. When ASU administrators refused to denounce hateful acts, such as the privilege hate boards, they opened the door for their racist messages being scrawled on a larger and more illegal scale.

When the Boone police department announced that the women had been identified, social media messages from other radical students cheered the perpetrators. The supporters had social media profiles touting everything from white privilege to the black panthers to white genocide.

What happened in ASU is a snapshot of what is taking place in campuses across America. Radical indoctrination metastasizes into radical action. What begins with online harassment and minor vandalism escalates into physical violence and terrorism. The old lessons of the sixties are being retaught all over again. And the old battles against leftist campus radicalism must be refought.

*Despite childish Democrat obstructionism, including a needless all night talkfest to delay the inevitable outcome, the Senate confirmed the nomination of Senator Jeff Sessions as this nations next attorney general by a vote of 52-47. As with his other cabinet nominations, President Trump needs only a majority of senators to confirm, thanks to former Democratic Majority Leader Harry Reids decision to change the filibuster rules. Only one Democrat, Senator Joe Manchin of West Virginia, showed courage in bucking the herd mentality of his resistance party and voted in favor of Sessions.

Contrast the Democrats irresponsible behavior with how Republicans treated Barack Obamas nomination of Eric Holder as attorney general in 2009. Back then, Senator Patrick Leahy of Vermont, who was the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, urged quick action by the Senate:

I would hope that we would have a prompt confirmation so he can restore morale and purpose throughout the Justice Department, it is important that the Justice Department have its senior leadership in place without delay. The attorney general is the top law enforcement officer in the country; he is a key member of the national security team.

The Republicans obliged, despite serious questions regarding Holders role in President Clintons controversial pardons of Marc Rich and the Puerto Rican FALN terrorists while Holder was serving as deputy attorney general in the Clinton Department of Justice. Republicans did not put up procedural roadblocks. The Judiciary Committee voted 17-2 to confirm Holder. The Senate as a whole then confirmed Holder by a lopsided bipartisan vote of 75 to 21.

Ironically, Senator Sessions voted in favor of Holder, saying he was sure that Holder would be a responsible legal officer and not a politician. His decision to vote to confirm Holder, despite serious policy differences, demonstrated Sessions own bipartisanship and willingness to give the benefit of the doubt to the presidents cabinet nominees. Yet when it became Sessions turn to be considered for the same position as Holders, his fellow Democratic senators turned viciously partisan. They threw every slur at him they could think of, and used every procedural trick in the book to slow down the confirmation of a fellow senator to whom they should have shown deference.

Democrats resorted to their usual tactic of rolling out the race card. Senator Leahy, for example, stated last month that Sen. Sessions has repeatedly stood in the way of efforts to promote and protect Americans civil rights. Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts took to the Senate floor Tuesday evening to quote from a decades-old letter attacking Sessions, in blatant violation of a Senate rule against impugning the character of a fellow senator on the floor of the Senate. Following rebuke of her for violating the Senate floor rule, she tweeted, I will not be silent about a nominee for AG who has made derogatory & racist comments that have no place in our justice system.

Mr. Sessions in fact filed multiple desegregation lawsuits as U.S. attorney and filed charges against a state leader of the Ku Klux Klan in a capital case, which he followed through on when he became the state attorney general. As mentioned above, he voted for Eric Holder, the nation's first African-American attorney general. Back in 2009, during Holders confirmation hearing, Senator Leahy had nothing but high praise for the man he has now turned against. "Sen. Sessions is here: of course, Sen. Sessions is also a former U.S. attorney and knows what one goes through in that regard, Senator Leahy said back then, and we've relied on him for that experience. And, Sen. Sessions, it's over to you." Senator Sessions responded, "Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And, congratulations, Mr. Holder, on the nomination."

Slander is the resistance partys weapon of choice in opposing cabinet nominees who have a different vision for the country than their own.

Democrats have also accused Jeff Sessions of being too close to President Trump, and presumably not willing to stand up to him when necessary to enforce the law. Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, charged that Sen. Sessions views this appointment as an opportunity to participate in a movement to advance the presidents agenda. This is not the role of the attorney general of the United States. Funny how Senator Feinstein chose to look the other way while Eric Holder and his successor Loretta Lynch used the Department of Justice to advance Obamas leftwing agenda, which included skirting the existing laws on immigration and undermining religious liberty.

There is nothing in Jeff Sessions long record of public service to indicate any lack of fidelity to the law. Indeed, it is partly because Sessions has stressed so often the need to enforce existing laws on the books, such as the nations immigration laws, that Democrats have ranted against him.

Most galling to the secular left who tried unsuccessfully to sabotage Sessions confirmation is his affirmation of religious faith that guides his core beliefs. They may want to look back at what the father of our country, President George Washington, said in his farewell address: And let us with caution indulge the supposition that morality can be maintained without religion. Whatever may be conceded to the influence of refined education on minds of peculiar structure, reason and experience both forbid us to expect that national morality can prevail in exclusion of religious principle.

*